Hii
|0f
11^0
PAGE FOUB
THE DAILY TAB mSBL
TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 1946
tott
IlllOtDfD
»ptttr
|cria00 I
C07i |T16
1946
Campus
Calendar
—Short Notices for Busy Readers—
Dark Room Installed In Graham Memorial
Graham Memorial has recently installed a fully equipped dark room for Carolina amateur photographers. The room contains a printer, an enlarger, a processing tank, a dryer, printing frames, trays, and chemicals. Everything but printing paper is supplied for $.25. Anyone who desires to use the dark room may call at the GM office for the key.
4 . lOMli
NOW PLAYING
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY-5’RIDAY
“ZIEGFELD FOLLIES OF 1946”
wKh
ALL STAR CAST
Local Reserve Officers To Form Association
All Reserve Officers of the Army, Navy, and Marines interested in the forming of a local Chapter of the Reserve Officers Association are invited to attend a meeting in the Roland Parker Lounge of Graham Memorial at 8 p.m. next Monday evening.
Major Pinckney M. Bernstein, representative of the North Carolina Military District, will be present to discuss the present status of plans for the training of the Officers Reserve Corps and the activities of the Reserve Officers Association.
LIBRARY HOURS
During the Summer Session the University Library will be open Monday through Saturday from 8:45 in the morning to 10:45 at night and on Sunday from 2 to 5.
Snokey Says:
HUe«K.HUB0A-< PIRB AINY 5UCH k
On« smolderinir camp or warn* Inc fir» ean destroy a forest Thon-sands of acres of woodland hava been rtvated by fires which people fhought wers dead. Be sure your Art is oat. ^
REHDER’S
CHAPEL HILL FLOWER SHOP
Opposite Post Office Corner
University
Service
Station
Odia
Pendergraft
Prop.
FLY!!
Twenty-one passenger Douglas Luxury Liner Flights
Full Airliner Equipment Stewardess $50,000 Insurance per Passenger
NORTHBOUND to New York on odd-date afternoons. SOUTHBOUND to Sea Island, Ga., and ^orida on even-date afternoons.
Flagstop wiU be made at Her* ace Williams Airport on the above aftemeons.
For information or reservations, call or phone
Rc^sort Airlines
Southern Pines 5482
Schedule Awwttncei For Taition Payments
Schedules for the pajnnent of tuition have been sent to most of the students registered in the first summer session, and T. H. Evans,. University Cashier, has asked that the students adhere to the schedule as well as possible and mail their checks in, if convenient, to prevent congestion at the Cashier’s office.
All those who registered for their classes last quarter are expected to pay on the following days: June 14, A through B; June 15, C; June 17, D through K; June 18, L through N; June 19, 0 through S; June 20, T through Z.
The new students who registered at the beginning of the summer session will follow this plan for payment: June 21, A through B; June 22, C; June 24, D through K; June 25, L through N; June 26, () through S; June 27, Y through Z.
According to the Cashier’s office, veterans whose tuition and fees are paid under P. L. 16 or P. L. 346 are requested to pay their laundrjr deposits of $6.00 during the pay period or mail their checks to the University Cashier, Box 690, Chapel Hill, N. C.
Methodist Circle Shows Pictures Taken in India
Pictures taken in India by Lt. Clyde Ritchie Bell, son-in-law of Mrs. Ethel Fore, will be shown at 8 o’clock tomorrow evening, in Gerrard hall under the ausflices ojf the M'imiie Wilson Circle of the Methodist church. Admission will be ten cents for children and 25 cents for adults.
Yacks to Be Issued
This afternoon in the basement of Graham Memorial the 1946 Yackety Yack will be circulated from 3:30 to 5:30. All students who were registered from November through June are entitled to receive copies of the book.
Blonde Beauty
JUNE PREISSER, lovely little eyeful, is seen in Universal’s comedy with music, “I’ll Tell the World,” which co-stars Lee Tracy and Brenda Joyce. Raymond Wal-burn and Thomas Gomez are also in the film.
Radio Service
• A Radio, regardless of how small, is an intricately constructed musical instrument. It requires highly skilled technicians to insure proper servicing when it stops. We are in a position to offer this type of service to the public. Only highest quality tubes and parts used to place your radio in first class operating condition.
• Parts and labor used in making repairs are guaranteed.
• We service all makes and types of radios, amplifiers, motion picture and electronic equipment.
• Batteries and tubes for most farm sets and portables.
WE CALL FOR AND DELIVER ANYWHERE WITHIN THE
CITY LIMITS
Two technicians assure you of receiving prompt attention.
Ogburn Furniture Company
Member RADIO MANUFACTURERS SERVICE 312-314 W. Franklin St.
Telephone 5841
Person Hall Site of Art Exhibition
An exhibition of pre-Spanish Peruvian fabrics selected from Textile Museum of the District of Columbia and circulated throughout the country by the Council for Inter-American Cooperation has been on view in Person Hall Art Gallery since Sunday, June 16, and will continue on display through June 30.
Also on view at the same time in the small gallery of the Hall will be an exhibit of French paintings. “From Fouquet to Cezanne”. Gallery hours are from 10 to 5 p.m. on week days and from 2 to 5 on Sundays.
Pan-American Arranged Entitled “Ancient Peruvian Textiles”, the main exhibition was arranged witl| the cooperation of the Pan-American Union, the Office of Inter-American Affffairs, and regional Inter-American centers throughout the country. Major Alfred Kidder II, previously with the Peabody Museum x)f Harvard University, aided in the selection of the textiles and edited the catalogue, for which M. D. C. CraAvford, distinguished authority on textiles, contributed and introduction and technical discriptions.
The fifty textiles included in the exhibition represent all but a small part of the famous colelction assembled by George Hewitt Myers in the course of almost twenty years. They are among the first in the world as far as technical virtuosity, prefection of design, and color and preservation are concerned.
VETS MAY HEAR FIGHT
All members of the Veterans Association are invited to listen to the Louis-Conn fight broadcast Wednesday evening at the Vets Club just east of Woollen gym.
“If you talk about your troubles And tell them o’er and o’er The world will think you like ’em And proceed to give you more.”
—The Twig.
* * *
Then there was the little moron standing on the comer with a gun and a knife in his hand debating whether to shoot around the corner or cut across the street.
FACULTY
(Comtbmtd frmm, fni pat*) Woestendiek’s budget for the summer D^y Tar Hed has been approved for a semi-weekly baaiSr bat the consideration of otiier budgets is still pending.
Both in Enirlish
Gotten and Olsoi, both members of the University English Department, will be officially installed this afternoon. Olsen is a professor in the public si>eaking division of the English Department; he has long been active in student affairs, having had much experience with such fee-spending agencies of student government as the Debate Council. Gotten is an instructor of English literature, and has become particularly well known to students as an authority on modern poetry.
Swim Suit
One of the swim suits favored by an all-male jury known as judges of the finest in American beauty styles is shown above. Serving on the jury were Sherman Billingsley, Don DeFore, Philip Wylie, Richard Conte, Howard Cullman, Walter Abel, Tom Belmore, and Alex Ross. Cotton candy stripe makes s ruffled bra (worn with or without straps) and short full skirt.
CLASSIFIED
AdveitiMBientt miMt b« p«M for ia aAvaaw ind turned in at tb« Dailt Tab BtaL burinwi offioe, Graham Memorial, br S o’elod^ piceedinc poblieation. Dial 8641. Fift^ MBti each inch and fraction. The DAH.T Tab Hmb. will be NBponsible only for the flnk iMomel Inacrtion and then only to the czttDt of • makenrood insertion—to be run only In caae 7t an error which leHcu tlM vala* of tlM rertlMBMBt.
HOU SEP ARTIES
Can accommodate 20-30 persons. Kitchenette facilities. Mrs. J. Napier, 315 S. Lumina Ave., Wrightsville Beach, N. C. (R-8931)
BULL’S HEAD BOOKSHOP
Ground Floor Library Bill Sharpe’s “TAR ON MY HEELS”
Browse	—	Rent	—-	Buy
Jewelry — Watches — Diamonds
A COMPLETE LINE
GODWIN JEWELRY COMPANY
Beneath Sutton’s Drug Store, Chapel Hill, N. C. EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING Two Watchmakers to Serve You
Engraving... Stone Setting,.. Rings Sized
BREAKFAST
at
DANZIGER’S
Unique in the Whole South ?
Quick, Efficient Service
Quiet, Pleasant Atmosphere No Waiting in Line
Delicious, Nutritious Food ?
Prices at 25c, 30c, 45c, 65c
Breakfast served from 7:00 A. M. to 12 M.
DANZIGER’S
Children’s Clinic Has Few Vacancies For Day Sbtdents
There are a few places left in day students camp-clinic for children with hearing, speech and orthopedic defects, which will be conducted at the Chapel Hill elementary %hool June 24 to July 20, Miss Ethel Honeycutt, executive secretary of the North Carolina Leagrue for Crippled Children, stated.
The League is conducting the school which is under the sponsorship of the University and the North Carolina School-Health Coordinating Service. Miss Pauline K. Winkler, head of the Conservation of Hearing Department of the public schools of Albany, N. y., and staff members of the Conservation of Hearing Clinic, Albany Hospital, will direct the program.
All applications for room and board in the camp-clinic are filled, but Miss Honeycutt pointed out that several more children could be accepted as day students and they would l)e furnished lunches.
VILLAGE THEATRE
NOW PLAYING
KATHRYN GRAYSON JIMMY DURANTE in
“TWO SISTERS FROM BOSTON”
WEDNESDAY
She tells it with Song! He tells it with laughsi
ilMMt [if AN af
THURSDAY
NEVER A PICIURB LIKE ITi
janetoiah
PkittpTerrf OariaDawlfaig WamwirfaSiha
FfMkFaylMi «mN«fc,ee|rwi4»
FRIDAY
m