EDITORIAL
• New Students
• Good for Chapel Hill
• Odds and Ends
NEWS
• Marines Deactivate
• Food Drive Slated
• Students Get Awards
-THE ONLY COLLEGE DAILY IN THE SOVTHEAST-
VOLUME LV
United Press
CHAPEL HILL, N. C., SATURDAY, JUNE 15, 1946
Editor; F-3146 — Business: 8641
NUMBER 1
Local Drive Planned For Overseas Relief
Campaign for Funds to Begin Next Wednesday To Aid Food Situation in Non-Occupied Lands
The University community is planning to make a substantial contribution to the nation-wide Emergency Fund Collection for overseas food relief for non-occupied countries of Europe and Asia. The intensive phase of the appeal will be conducted from Wednesday, June 19, through the following Monday, June 24, and is headed up by Mrs. Russell M. Grumman and Mrs. James L.
Godfrey as co-chairmen.	?-------------——---------
A house-to-house canvass will be TkY	•
Newman Gives Talk, Recital
made during that period by committee chairmen representing various sections of the village. Tickets for “a banquet you will never eat, that a family in Europe or Asia may not starve,” will be offei-ed for a dollar or as much more as the donors will contribute.
E. Carrington Smith, president of the Chapel Hill-Carrboro Merchants Association, also will make a special appeal to the business men, and W. T. Huntley heads up a special gifts committee.
Bank to Serve as Center
The Bank of Chapel Hill will serve as central collecting agency, and any contributions left there will be credited to the individual donors.
Chairmen for other divisions are Guy B. Phillips and William H. Po-teat for the University administration, faculty and students; Hubert Robertson for the Negro citizens, and Walter Baucom as treasurer.
“None of the money contributed will be used in conducting the campaign; every penny will be used for the purchase of food for people who need it desperately in order to survive,” Mayor Madry said^
Final Plans
Pinal plans for the collection will be made at a meeting of division captains and co-workera at a meeting in the Baptist Chuirch h^xt Tuesday night at 8 o’clock. There will be shown at the same time two ten-minute movies, “Suffer Little Children” and “Food for Freedom.” This meeting will be open to the public.
English Group Holds Institute At University
First Session Set For Monday Evening
Actual experience in organizing and leading voluntary work-study groups for improvement in English instruction is being provided for in the informal conferences and committees of the fourth English Institute, which opened here Thursday, according to plans announced by Dr. Earl H. Harteell, pxecutive secretary of the North Carolina English Teachers.
The first general session of the Institute will be held in the main lounge of the Graham memorial on Monday evening. Preliminary organization and planning will be follovved by a social hour, during which light refreshments will be served. Richard Walser, of the Hniversity English staff, and the English Teachers’ Central Committee, will preside at the meeting.
Guidance and facilities will be provided for groups interested in the teaching of composition, (including sFielling and grammar), use of audiovisual aids, directing speech activities,
and other fields.
Poetry Courses Offered
In addition, many of the members will be taking, as a part of their regular program, the special graduate course in the interpretation of poetry included among the English department’s offerings at the special request of the teachers. This course, and many other offered in various departmen^ of the University, may be audited by teachers who come only for the Institute program.	—
Institute membership is open to a teachers, prospective teachers, super visors and administrators who are ‘•specially interested in the teaching of English or language arts. Dr. Hart-sell said.
During the first two weeks, the informal, differentiated programs o t e small committee group will be a pre See ENGLISH, page k
Summer Term \Plan% Made
!
French House iFor Summer Has Full Quois,\By Di Senate
William S. Newman, assistant professor of music at the University of North Carolina, will be presented in a recital next Tuesday, at 8:30 p.m. in Hill Music Hall. Dr. Newman will play compositions of Felix Mendelssohn, Robert Schumann, Franz Schubert and Franz Liszt.
Heard for the first time in Chap?l ( Hill will be Edward Ballantine’s amusing variations on “Mary Had a Little Lamb” in which the simple nurseiy tune is presented as it might have been written by Frank, Schumann, Bach, Strauss, Gershwin, Stravinsky anfl other great composers.
Professor Newman received his musical education in Cleveland and Paris and has given lecture recitals in many parts of the country and appeared as soloist with several symphony orchestras. He has previously been heard in Chapel Hill as lecture, recitalist on four piano sonatas and, most recently, as piano soloist with the Chapel Hill Choral Club presentation of “The Rio Grande.” This will be his last appearance in Chapel Hill until the fall. He will teach graduate theory in the summer session nf Columbia Teachers College.
Awards Presented To ROTC Members At Dress Parade
Merit awards to members of th« Naval ROTC unit here were presented at dress parade Monday morning on Fetzer Field.
The Josephus Daniels award for proficiency in naval science, was presented to Second Lieut. David Aull Rapp, USMCR, of Washington, D. C.
Cadet Scott Milholland Julian, Memphis, Tenn., received the Sons of the American Revolution award for proficiency in navigation, presented by Dr. W. E. Caldwell of the University History Department.
Proficiency in individual drill was recognized by the American Legion award, presented to Cadet William Jessie Crutchfield, Orangeburg, S. C., by E. B. Patterson, commander of the local American Legion post.
Joseph F. Mallard, Jr., of Jersey City, N. J., received the Moses Bishop medal, a Sons of the American Revolution award for “the best all-around soldier.” It was presented by the University ^hapter of the SAR.
Captain Donald W. Loomis, commanding officer of the Naval V-12-ROTC unit, presented all letters of commendation to Ensigns C. J. Cox, Rochester, N. J.; P. M. Lanier, Danville, Ky.; J. F. Mallard, Jr., Jersey City' N. J.; C. D. O’Connor, Norfolk, Va ; D. F. Ryder, Queens Village, N. Y. and T. D. Wollmer, St. Mary’s, Pa.
Ensign O’Connor also received the Navy Department cup, presented to the First Company, of which he is commander, for being the best drilled
company.
Local Photographers To Meet on Monday
The Chapel Hill Camera Club will meet Monday evening at 7:30 in the Wootten-Moultott Studios, according to a statement from Reggie Kachigian,
the club’s secretary-treasurer.
The meeting will include the first
of a series of demonstration-lectures
on the use and wide aspects of lighting in photography.____________
Save your copies of the Daily Tar Heel and let us have them bound for you.
Giduz, Hardre, Huse Compose New Stafif
The University Summer Session’s French House opened Thursday at the Alpha Delta Pi sorority with a capacity membership of twenty-one students.
Its new staff is composed of Hugo Giduz, director; Mrs. Charlotte Huse, hostess, and Jacques Hardre, instructor.
The anniversary of Gen. DeGaulle’s first appeal to the people of France to continue resistance against the Nazis will be commemorated Tuesday evening at the French House at a special celebration at which Rene Hardre of the Woman’s College in Greensboro will speak. This appeal, broadcast June -18, 1940 by the B.B.C. is considered the beginning of the Free French movement.
Public Incited
Hugo Giduz, director of the French House, has announced that persons interested in France and the language of that country are invited to hear Mr. Hardre and to attend the house’s other entertainment programs, to be held at 7 o’clock sharp every evening. French films will be shown Monday evening and at later meetings the evenings will include games and singing in French.
According to a decision made at an executive session late last term, the Senate of the Dialectic Society will remain active during the summer terms. President-elect Bob Morrison announced yesterday.
The Assembly of the Philanthropic Society will not be active this summer, Speaker-elect James Taylor said. The Phis, however, are expected to participate in many of the activities of their sister society, the Di,
A wide program of forensic and social activities is being planned by the Di, which will meet in regular session every Wednesday night throughout the summer terms. In addition to formal discussion bills presented during regular sessions, the Di will offer the campus other presentations such as debates, forums, speakers, roundtable discussions, and meetings to discuss current local, national, and international affairs.
Beginning its 152nd year at the University of North Carolina, the Di will stress service to the student body. All summer school students will be permitted to participate in the activities of the Di, and a number of new members may be initiated this summer.
Marines Inactivated; Navy Status Changed
Leathernecks Slated for Commissions, Discharges; Twenty Continue with Navy
The Marine Corps V-12 unit, which has been functioning at the University since July 1, 1943, was inactivat ed last week-end when its present contingent of 75 men were either commissioned or discharged. However, the Navy ROTC program will be continued although on a peacetime instead of a war basis.
--------------------^ The NROTC will continue to offer
Yackety Yack To Be Issued This Tuesday
Fall Registrants Entitled to Book
Tuesday afternoon at 3 o’clock until j 5 Yackety Yacks will be distributed
courses in naval science and tactics during the summer, Captain Donald W. Loomis announced, with approximately 20 students taking courses to receive a degree and commission in the Xaval Reserve.
Beginning next September, he said, the NROTC will offer courses under either the “Hollow^ay Plan” which is now before Congress or under the former peacetime NROTC regulations.
The Holloway Plan
Recommendations made by the Hol-in the basement of Graham Memorial, j Joway Board, which were favorably
reported out of the House Naval Affairs Committee, are now- before Congress. If the plan win?: Congressional
13 Awards T*resented To Outstar ing Students
Phillips, PuUy, Ferrv Cited for Service;
Fenhagen Receives E nest Abernethy Award
University ol Noi'th	who hav^ achieve signal
success in various fields of endeavor were given formal recognition with the presentation, of 12 awards at the University s 152nd Commencement exercises.
Recipients of the Algernon Sydney Sullivan awards, presented to threi students who demonstrated “a desir»
to be of service” to the Universit: were: Dorothy Adelyn Phillips, Or lando, Fla.; Morris Wiley P”1 , Kinston, and Kay Ferrell of Cha.. t Hill.
Fenhagen Honored
The Ernest H. Abernethy awar^. cf $50 was presented to Frank Weston Fenhagen, Baltimore, Md., managing editor of the Daily Tar Heel, for his work with campus publications. Honorable mention was given the work of Mary Hill Gaston, Gastonia, in the publications field.
For general excellence in athletics, James Allen Jordan, Chester, W. Va., received the Patterson Medal. Jordan was named All-Southern in University basketball this year.
Recipient of the Archibald Henderson prize in mathematics was Charles Norwood Reilley of Charlotte.
Margaret W. Matthews of Chapel Hill was given the Eben Alexander prize in Greek. Miss Matthews received a $10 award for the best rendering into English selected passages of Greek not previously read.
See AWARDS, page U
Regular Classes Set For Students Today
TBere will be regular classes in all departments today, accor4^g to an announcement by Guy B. Phillips, Director of the’ Summer Session.
Other Saturdays of the first term scheduled to fearture regular classes in all departments are June 29 and July 13.
Examinations for the first term of the summer session will be held July 19 and 20, d>jd j-egistration for the second term will begin on the 22nd,
Final examinations are scheduled for August 28-29.
DTH Workers Wanted
All students interested in working on the business stafif of the Daily Tar Heel this summer are asked to meet at the business office, 207 Graham Memorial, at 3 o’clock, Wednesday afternoon.
OflFice assistants, advertising layout assistants, and advertising sales representatives are needed. No experience necessary.
Editor Fred Flagler announced yesterday.
All students who have not received copies of the yearbook and who are entitled to one by virtue of being here since November, 1945 are requested to call for their books next week so that the 1946 Yack can become a dead issue as far as circulation is concerned.
The book is dedicated to Dr. I-ouis Round Wilson, prominent University
librarian and administration official. It made its first appearance on the campus on Mond;^, June 3, but quite a few students failed to get copies because the first shipment of books amounted to only 1,200. The book is bound in a terra cotta, leather-like iiiaterTal with White embossed letters over the University seal.
New Publications Board Ratiiies Appointments; Asks for Faculty Men
The Publications Board has ratified DTH Editor Bill Woestendiek’s appointment of Roland Giduz as managing editor. Bob Morrison, president of the Board, announced. The Board also ratified the reappointments of Bill Selig, business manager of the DTH, and Clifford Hemingway, circulation manager.	!
Approval was given Mag Editor Fred Jacobson’s appointment of Ben Perlmutter as business manager of the Mag, and Yack Editor Gene Johnstone’s appointment of Jean Huske as business manager of the Yack.
At a meeting late last term the newly elected student members of the Board unanimously petitioned Chancellor R. B. House to appoint as faculty member of the Board W. A. Olsen, professor in the public speaking division of the English Department, and Dr. Lyman Gotten, instructor of English.
A consideration of the budgets for the three publications was postponed until more accurate information is learned of the student fees next year.
Nine Thousand Veterans Desiring. To Enter University This Fall Already Turned Away
Nine thousand veterans, 5,000 of them from this State, who want to enter the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill this fall have been told “there is no room” for them.
At State College in Raleigh more than 3500 veterans are being denied admission for the fall term for the same reason, and rooms cannot be found for hundreds of applicants for entrance to the Woman’s College at Greensboro.
Such was the report made to Governor R. Gregg Cherry and to the Trustees of the consolidated University of North Carolina at their meeting here this week by Controller W. D. Carmichael, Jr.
The report also asserted that all three institutions are in grave danger of losing many of their professors because of the salary scale and competition wdth other institutions “that
have strained loyalties to the breaking point.”
Several surveys indicate that the peak of the veteran enrolment will come in 1949 or 1950 and by that time 30,000 veterans and 20,000 other civilians will be denied admission to North Carolina colleges and universities ‘unless the federal government quickly gives substantial aid toward a college building program for our private and public institutions alike”, Controller Carmichael’s report said.
Senator Meade of New York, it was pointed out, has introduced a bill in €he Senate which would provide $250,000,-000 for grants to colleges, on a 50-50 basis, for the construction of permanent dromitories, classrooms, laboratories and other facilities necessary for the education of veterans. “This would be a start”. Controller Carmichael said.
“The Federal Government provided
the necessary funds to educate civilians into efficient fighting men. It is just as logical for the Federal Government to provide the necessary funds to re-educate these fighting men into healthy, happy, effective citizens. It is morally sound. It is economically sound. It will cost a great deal of money to do it. But not to do it, may cost a great deal more than money.
“Every veteran on the three campuses of the consolidated. University is costing the State of North Carolina $200-$250 a year, despite the vast amounts of money that are being contributed by the Federal Government.”
Controller Carmichael pointed out that in 1941, the peak year for college enrolments in North Carolina, “there were 31,500 students in our institutions of higher learning: 26,500 were whites and 5,000 were Negrroes. Approximately 52 percent of the 31,500 were men and 48 precent were women.
approval, students will be selected for the NROTC program by a competitive examination given throughout the country. Those appointed under the program will receive all tuition and fees plus $50 per month during their four years’ college training, but they must arrange for entrance into the college of their choice and room accommodations after their arrival.
Those who successfully complete the required naval science subjects. Captain Loomis said, as well as those subjects for a baccalaureate degree, will receive a commission. They are obliged to serve 15 months’ active duty with the fleet after which time they may return to civilian life with a reserve commission or they may apply for a commission in the regular Navy.
Students under either the Holloway Plan or the peacetime program in effect before the war would be under Navy control only during attendance at naval classes and drills and would not be required to wear uniforms except during drill periods.
All Marines Leave
Captain Robert E. Brovra, in charge of the Marines, said that t5 men in this unit will be sent to various bases for commissioning as lieutenants. The remaining 50 will be discharged at Camp Lejeune the middle of June. Almost’ 400 members of the corps have received training here.
Captain Brown, third commanding officer which the unit has had since its formation here, is to be transferred to San Diego, Calif., where he will attend sea school for two months, after which he will be given sea duty. His family is living in Oberlin, Ohio.
Other leaders of the Marine Corps group here hav’e been Major James Marshall, who opened the unit, and Captain Preston S. Marchant.
Local Group Proposes Vfar Memorial Fund
The Chapel Hill Chapter of Americans United for World Organization has offered to sponser the establishment of a war memorial fund to be used to bring to Chapel Hill each year a distinguished lecturer on some phase of continuing problems of world organization and lasting peace.
The Chapter, represented by Dr. J. B. Bullitt, Preston C. Farrar, and Mrs. Russell M. Grumman, in an open letter in the Chapel Hill Weekly recently asked for suggestions for an appropriate way to “honor the young men of this community who gave their lives that civilization might live and, that the world might be free from the greatest danger that has threatened it in a thousand years.”
There were many suggestions for a memorial fund for a lecture each year by a distinguished speaker.
“It is the intention of the Committee that the Honor Roll of the men from the Chapel Hill community who fell in the war be printed on the program of each lecture,” it was explained.
Contributions are being mailed to Dr. Bullitt.