SATURDAY, JUNE 15, 1946
Carolina Cage Star Selected On Third 0-American Team
John Dillon regular with Coach Ben Carnevale’s topflight University of \orth Carolina fcasketball team was ^r,o?en on his third All-American team.
Chuck Taylor picked Dillon on the Converse selection for All-America it \vas ’.tiaiif* known this week, Dillon already has been picked on the Sporting \'e\v? number one cage team and the \e\v York radio sports commentators .election?.
JDillon was a hookshot artist with the White Phantoms this past season, and 491 points via the aforementioned method. He played a vital role in li'iKiing the Carolina five to Madison >,;r.are Garden and the NCAA semi-
\M you say that a bachcior is a
r.a w-’.o won’t take “yes’’ for an
FLY!!
Twenty-one passenger Douglas Luxury Liner Flights
Full Airliner Equipment Stewardess $50,000 Insurance per Passenger
northbound to New York on odd-date afternoons. SOUTHBOUND to Sea Island, Ga., and Florida on even-date afternoons.
Flagstop will be made at Horace Williams Airport on the above afternoons.
For information or reservations, call or phone
Resort Airlines
Southern Pines 5482
Full Sports Card Features
MuralProgram
Softball Heads Summer Schedule
1	summer intramural
Chedule will get under way next week
'Mth a full card planned by the intramural department in several summer sports, including softball, tennis, handball, swimming and dancing.
Softball will head the list of summer sports, with games scheduled daily at 4 p.m. on all fields. Softball games will start next Thursday, with
mural information
Any individual or organization desiring information about entering intramural competition for the
summer can obtain that information by calling t-3321 or by visiting the intramural «»ffice in 217
Woollen gymnasium.
THE DAILY TAR HEEL
PAGE THREE
rxioiikii
NOW PLAYING
ADVENTURES!
with EDWARD
ARNOLD
L. R'CHARO wHORf
C'duc	h V
»OBH!T 5.ISK' AM M-G-M FICT-tf
SINDAY-MONDAY
L A U R I r z
MELCHIOR
JIMMY
DURANTE
PETER
lAWFORD
\lso itcst News
all entiies to be turned in by next luesday afternoon. All organization such as fraternities, dormitories or independents are limited to enter one team in the competition.
Tennis competition will be run in the form of a tournament to be carried on all through the summer. The tournament will include women’s singles, men’s singles and mixed doubles. Entries for tennis will be marked on the sheets available on the tennis courts, and must be turned in by Friday, June 21.
Handball will include mens’ doubles, with entries to be turned in by Friday, June 21.
The swimming competition will be run in the form of a swimming meet to be held on July 18. Entries will be made for the various events and heats will be arranged for the entries at a later date.
Pool Regulations For Summer Term Are Announced
Students will be able to use the out-dor pool for recreational swimming at hours announced by the physical education department.
Monday through Friday the pool will be open from 11:45 to 12:45 and from 2 to 6:30 in the afternoons. On Saturdays the pool will be open from 11 tol and from 2 to 6. On Sundays from 2-5.
Students are reminded that they must don their swimming apparel at the locker rooms of the gym before using the pool. All male students are required to use University swimming trunks, and all students must have an infirmary permit prior to using the pool.
For further information with regard to swimming regulations call 34.31, the physical education department number.
Children may use pool, at other than instruction periods from 11 to 12:45 Monday through Saturday and 3:30-5 every da.v.
Graham Given Degree At Harvard Exercises
IVesident Frank P. Graham was hc)nf)re<l by Hai’vard TJniveisity last wfok at their commencement exercises when he and twelve others, including General Eisenhower, Admiral Nimitz and General Arnold, received the d('gree of doctor of laws.
Later that day President Graham spoke at the annual meQtmg of the Harvard Alumni Association, where he called for a recognition of the power of ideas in an age of the power of machines.
I!
ii	^ '
BE IT A COOL GLASS OF ICED TEA
ORA
DELICIOUS K.ANSAS CITY X BONE STEAK
—You cannot find better food or service in Chapel
Hill than that found at
The University Restaurant
Next to Post Office
Athletic OfRce To Accept Football Ducat Applications
The athletic ticket ofBce is now accepting applications for season tickets for Carolina’s 1947 football campaign and the Duke game, it was announced this week.
Alumni which includes present students will be given priority on the tickets up until July 1 at which time the general public will have an opportunity to get season tickets and Duke game ducats.
The following special procedures will be adhered to for the Duke game
which is expected to be a sell-out: 1-Orders for season tickets will be serviced first. 2- Orders up to and including six tickets will be filled from the best location available at the time of receipt of the order. 3- When more than six tickets are ordered, six seats Vvill be assigned from the best location available at the time, and the rest of the order will be held in abeyance until July 1 and then filled from the best location available. Season tickets command a preferential seat throughout the season.
Checks or money orders should be mailed to box 109, Chapel Hill in care of the ticket office, University Athletic Association,
Swimmers Meet Monday
All men interested in trying out for the summer swimming team are reqeusted by Coach Jamerson to report to the indoor pool 2:30 Monday afternoon.
Veteran’s discharge pin: ruptured duck.
Scott To Replace Curnevale As Head Basketball Mentor
Midwest Coach Lands Position
I Iowa, where he got a masters degree I in physical education.
I Scott took over his present coaching 1-	,	^	I position in 1938, when he was elected
Carohnas basketball coaching staff k^^d basketball coach at Central Mis-for next year began to take shape, this I g^uri State Teachers College. In five
week with the announcement of the appointment of Tom Scott, Athletic Director of the Central Missouri State Teachers College, to the position of head coach here, replacing Ben Carne-vale, who took over coaching duties at the United States Naval Academy. j Scott will have the job of reorganiz- | ing Carolina basketball, with the 1946 I team, which went to Madison Square j Garden and national fame, in the NC { AA tourney, being defeated in the final I by the Oklahoma Aggies 43-40.	j
Scott, who comes to Carolina about the middle of August to begin his work, has a reputation as one of the outstanding cage coaches in the midwest. He was graduated from Kansas State Teachers College in 1930 with a major in physical education and played basketball there four years.
The new basketball coach began his coaching career at Moundredge Kansas High School, where he put in two years, followed by three years as coach at Halstead, Kansas, High School. In 1935 he went to Moorhead, Minnesota, where he served as public school physical education director for one year.
In 1936 Scott was made head coach of Concordia College, Moorhead, Minnesota, where his teams took second and third place in the M.S.C. Conference. In 1938 he went to the University of
seasons at Warrenburg, his team won four championships, one undefeated, and one second place in the M.I.A.A. Conference. In the conference, his teams won 42 out of 50 games during the five year period, while in all games played, they copped 92 out of 126 games for a percentage of .730.
Tournaments w^on by Scott’s teams include Oklahoma City, El Paso, and St. Joseph, Missouri. In 1942, Scott coached his team to fourth place in the National Tournament at Kansas City.
A pedestrian is a man whose son is home from college.
—Technique, Ga. Tech.
CLASSIFIED
AdreitiaaMntB must be paid for ta atfvuM and tamed in at the Dailt Hbh. koiteMa olfiee. Gimham Memorial, hf S o‘doek 4b3T preceding pnbUcatkm. 1^ 8641. Ttttj matm each inch aad fraction. Tb« Dailt Tab win be reeponaiblg oaly for the flnt insertion and tboi o^ to the extot at m make-eood insertion—to be ran 011I7 te OM* of an error whiah lewBens the Talne of tfaa a4-irertiseiBeot.
FOR SALE
Six weeks old, black and white, registered Cocker Spaniel, female. Dial 9696. (R-8378)
REHDER’S CHAPEL HILL FLOWER SHOP
Opposite Post Office Comer
A REGULAR meeting of University Lodge No. 408, AF&AM, will be held on
Monday, June 17, 1946 SECOND DEGREE
JERRY the Tailor
OVER N. C. CAFETERIA
THE W 0 R L D'S MOST HONORED WATCH
WINNER OF 10 World’s Fair Grand Prizes,
28 Gold Medals and more honors for accuracy than any other timepiece.
YOU ARE ALWAYS WELCOME
—at—
WALGREEN’S
DURHAM, N. C.
MCMVl
BE COMFORTABLE
RIDE IN A
CAROLINA CAB
DIAL
4811
DIAL
items of
Chemistjry Finds Better Way to Descale Steel
One of the most bother-» some problems in the metal industry is the removall of scale from the surfaot; of stainless steels and other alloys. Scale is a thin film of metal oxide which forms at high temperatures during fabrica-tion or processing. It is very abrasive to dies and other metal-forming tools, and if not completely removed causes serious flaws in the surface of finished products.
Several years prior to World War II, Du Pont chemists, engineers and
metallurgists went to --------------
work on the problem of developing a quick and positive descaling process. When success came three years later, a secrecy order prevented its public announcement at that time —the discovtery went directly into war work.
Process Development
In developing the process, a group of Du Pont Chemists found that small amounts of sodium hydride, dissolved in molten sodium hydroxide, effectively removed scale without attacking the base metal or embrittling it. However, the problem then arose of finding an efficient and economic means of obtaining the sodium hydride. This was accomplished by developing an mgenio^ apparatus for forming it directly in the molten sodium hydroxide (700° F.) from metallic sodium and gaseous hydrogen.
Metal chambers, open at the bottom, are placed along the inside of the descaling tank and partly immersed in the bath. Solid sodium is introduced into these chambers, and hydrogen gas bubbled through. The s^ium hydride formed is diffused uniformly throughout the molten caustic.
Practical Application
The metal to be descaled is immersed in the bath which contains 1.5 to 2% of sodium hydride. Scale is reduc^ to the metallic state for
atm
ouct to fAH
GENERATOR
BOX
RIMSE AlifA
XAfiK
DESCALING TANK
OlffNCH TANK
A typical layout showing arrangement of equipment for sodium hydride descaling. The usual treating cycle comprises sodium hydride treatment, water quench, water rinse and acid dip for brightening.
the most part in from a few seconds to twenty minutes, depending on the size and type of material.
The hot metal is then quenched in water, and the steam generated actually blasts the reduced scale from the underlying metal. A water rinse and a short dip in dilute acid complete the process and produce a clean bright surface.
This process has been called the mosfc significant development in the cleaning of metal surfaces in decades. It is representative of what men of Du Pont iare doing to help American industry to better, quicker, more economica^i production methods.
MAN-^^DE SPONGES PRODUCED BY DU PONT CHEMISTS
Among the most versatile members of the family of cellulose products— whose members include rayon, cellophane, lacQuers and plastics—is the synthetic sponge.
Du Pont cellulose sponges have many of the attributes of the kind that grow in the sea, plus several additional advantages. For example, quahty cart be kept uniform; texture and hole-siJ» can be predetermined; they can be,cut to handy shapes, and they may b^ sterilized by boiling.
The comp>licated 10-day manufacturing proceflB starts when viscose is produced bf^ adding carbon disul-
More facts about Du Ponf—Ll$t«n to “Cavalcade of Amarica," M«BdaySi 8 P.M. EDST, on NBC
phide to alkali cellulose (from wood or cotton), and dissolving the mixture in water and mild alkali. To produce holes, crystals of the desired, size are introduce. Heating in a salt solution hardens the viscose and dissolves out the crystals. Washing, centrifuging and oven-drying complete the op>eration.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
''DOES THE DU PONT COMPANY EMPLOY ENGINEERS?''
There are many diverse opportunities at Du Pont for engineers. Principal requirements are for chemical and mechanical engineers, but opp)ortuni-ties also exist for industrial, civil, electrical, metallurgical, textile, petroleum and others. Practically all tjrpes of engineering are included in the work of the manufacturing departments and the central Engineering Department. Openings for qualified engineers exist at times in all of these departments.
(EPflSD
*t«.U.S.PAT.OrK
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTHY
I. I. DU PONT Dl NIMOUIS A CO. (INC4 WILMINGTON 98, DILAWAIi