TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 1946
THE DAILY TAB HEEL
PAGETHBB
T
Filling In
ThaVs About All There Is
By Fred Flagler
Filling in is an appropriate title for this columning venture for one very obvious reason ... we are doing just that. The sports department is almost as barren as the Carolina sports field, but the Tar Heel has four pages fall, winter, spring and summer so something must be done to fill up the gaps until better fortune befalls it.
Just as a reminder, to save all concerned a lot of trouble, we pass on a suggestion to swimmers to follow the rules posted by the physical education department. The officials around the outdoor pool don’t want to be horsey about the matter, but the bacteria count (germs to those who missed natural science) has to Ibe kept down in order to keep the pool open. So, follow the rules which are there for your safety, and. you won’t have to gripe because the pool will remain open as long as the users cooperate.
Those of the North Carolina sports realm will miss the daily column of the deen of the state’s sports writers, Jake Wade. He has vacated his position with the Charlotte Observer where he made a name for himself over a period of years via his “Sports Parade.” Wade is a Carolina alumnus and has been a familiar figure among press figures working in Kenan stadium’s press box. Wade probably won’t be seen as often around the Hill next fall, but you can bet your bottom dollar that he will be watching the Duke-Carolina game and an extra two bits says that he might even put his talents to work again and turn out a piece on the same.
We haven’t purposely skipped over the big event of the week in the sports field, but we might as well for all the luck we have predicting victories. If there were only one horse in a race we would probably pick something else. Since the weighing of evidence, called by some dope, and coming .out with something which usually amounts to just words (no cracks pleeze) is the popular thing with regard to the bout Wednesday night, we might say our piece.
For one thing about the only similarity between the fight of five years ago and the one tomorrow night is that bofl^ Conn and Louis will be in the ring. Both say that they will fight differently. Both say they played the gloves wrong in their first get-together. The fact that Conn is going to attempt to overcome his slow starting complex with a pre-fight
¦warm-up is indicative of the new tactics to be employed. This, in itself,
might be a much more important factor th.an one would realize. By his youth Conn is probably the one to retain his strength the longer. Yet, he dances around quite a bit, and if he gets too much wind ablowing beforehand, Louis might easily finish him in £hort order.
It might be said that Louis of today will not measure up to the Louis of a few years back, bat then will Conn be the fighter he was? Both, you can be sure, have lost something with age, and the difference in the amount lost might easily be another factor to notice.
Filling in will not attempt to fill in the winner at this point. We predict that the fight will run eight rounds, and that either Louis or Conn
The above photo shows Joe l.ouis immediately after he had sent Billy Conn to the canvas in the 13th round of the first fight between the two. The two men will meet again tomorrow with Conn once again in the challenger’s role against the champion.
Darham Radio Station Will Broadcast Fight From Yankee Stadium
WDUK located in Durham and 1310 on the radio dial will be the nearest radio station within the Chapel Hill area broadcasting the world's championship fight between Joe Louis and Billy Conn.
The broadcast will be heard over most American Broadcasting Company stations, and will begin at 9 o’clock EST tomorrow night. In case ef change of the fight time, tune in to an American Broadcasting Company statement for up-to-date information.
Summer Murals
Thie Carolina intramural office is ready to begin a busy summer of campus competition events, with the softball schedule slated to get under way Thursday afternoon.
A total of 20 softball teams have been lined up so far and most of the umpires for the games have been chosen. The softball competition is open to any fraternity, dormitory, or independent organization who desire to enter a team.
The tennis and handball tournaments are in the process of being organized and will be ready to start next week. Entry blanks for both tournaments are available now at the courts and entries will be open until Friday afternoon.
The intramural office will begin holding a series of social dances this week on the East porch of Woollen Gymnasium every Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday evenings from 7:30 till 9 o’clock, with recorded music. Monday and Wednesday evenings will be set aside for social dancing instruction.
All the students are invited to informal dances.
is going doAwn mighty hard in the
tussle for the world’s boxing crown.
Before knocking out the last letter of this fill in job we might mention that a wide-awake physical education department has done a mighty fine thing. In order to provide tennis facilities to meet the demand, the department has arranged for a reservation method which will prevent monopoly of the courts. According to the rules formulated the courts will be reserved for one hour’s play only. This, the department l\ppes, will help relieve the problem. It will probably bring forth some gripes, but at least It is an attempt to satisfy the majority.
STATIONERY
in
Plain, Beautiful Pastel Colors
Carolina Steel Engraved
More Than 100 Nundfers from Which to
Choose
Greeting Cards for All Occasions
NOTEBOOKS and FILLERS
Scrapbooks Felt Goods College Jewelry
Office Supplies Playing Cards Desirable Gifts
LEDBETTER-PICKARD
Dempsey Picks Louis To Chill Conn Quickly
Louis Is Eager For Return Bout
Former heavyweight champion Jack Dempsey believes that Joe Louis will knock out Billy Conn in shorter time tomorrow night than he did five years ago when the champion came from behind to chill Conn in the thirteenth round.
After talking to both Louis and Conn and taking into consideration the fact that their long absence from the ring because of the war has made an intelligent prediction difficult, Dempsey has no hesitation in voicing his belief that Louis will do the job quicker this time.
“Today the big questions are; “Has Louis slipped and how far?’ ” Dempsey states in a magazine article. “How much has his lightning speed in punching slowed down? They go for Conn also.”
Dempsey believes that Conn has the style that figures to give Louis trouble —fast, clever, shifty boxing. And Conn is supremely confident that this time he won’t make the mistake of trying to knock Louis out if he (Conn) is out front on points.
“But I note also that Louis, never one to brag, has said he is certain that he can repeat over Conn, and in quicker time than he did before,” the former champion pointed out. “From the time there was talk of a return match, Louis expressed willingness— even—eagerness—to meet Conn again. He has repeated frequently that Billy Conn would get the first crack at his title when he returned to the ring after a stretch in the Army.
Mural Umpires
All umpires, who have been contacted about working the mural soft-
bal games this summer, are requested
to report by the intramural office Wednesday afternoon to draw their assignments.
Said the firefly to her lover who had found love elsewhere, “O.K. big boy, you glow your way and I’ll glow mine.”
—Old Gold and Black.
The
Carolina Pharmacy
DIAL 6141 Chapel Hill, N. C.
aitd IfIS ORCHSmA
1	DRUG
Summer Air Show
«K*f:30|.T.'nMTIRnS
JUNI 14
Star Carolina Trackmen To Enter National Meet
Two Leading Blue and White Cindermen Run for Honors in Minneapolis Event
By Jim Pharr
Carolina’s two leading cindermen of the spring season, miler Mark Bura-ham and hurdler Floyd “Chunk” Simmons, are preparing to leave for Minneapolis, Minnesota, where they will enter the National Collegiate Track and Field Championships, to be held at the University of Minnesota on Friday and Saturday of this week.
The National Collegiate meet is an outstanding event in the country and will draw trackmen from all sections.
Conference pace setters will be leading contenders for honors in the Minneapolis contests.
Chunk Simmons, who will erfter the high and low hurdle tests, was the outstanding Tar Heel trackman during the spring season. He compiled 113 points, including 15 first places, to take honors as high scorer. He is a native of Charlotte, North Carolina and served in the Army as a member of the 10th Mountain Division ski troops.
In important meets during the past season, Simmons won the lows, and placed second in the highs against Navy and really hit his stride in scoring 18% points in the Carolina AAU Open Invitational meet which closed the Tar Heel season. In addition to track. Chunk is a football tailback of considerable promise, a good student, and was voted the “most handsome boy” by a coed survey.
Mark Burnham, of Shelburne,
Mass., will be the Carolina entry in the mile run. Burnham scored 38% points in meets during the season, including five first places. Burnham’s outstanding race of the season was in the Southern conference mile run, where he flashed ahead of a fast field to win the championship.
Burnham is a former V-12 and V-5 Navy man who did some running at Dartmouth before being transferred to Carolina. His only loss of the season in dual meet cotopetition was to Navy, and he finished third in a crowded field of thirty in the IC4A meet at Annapolis, Maryland.
CHUNK SIMMONS
UNC Students Honored By Atlantic Monthly
Two UNC students, members of Professor Phillips Russell’s writing class, have received awards in the 1946-46 Atlantic Contest for college writers, according to a communication received by Professor Russell from the Atlantic Monthly magazine, Boston, Massachusetts.
W. Carrington Guy, Richmond, Virginia, placed in the top 10 of the contest entries, with his essay, “Twilight of a Poet,” which was rated number seven by the judges.
Olive Ann Burns, a graduating
senior from Atlanta, Georgia, received
honorable mention in a poetry contest for her poem, “I Must Tell You
My Dream, David.”
Monogram Club
The Monogram club will meet tonight at 7:30 in Navy Hall.
Radio is said to be the most intimate form of entertainment because a person can enjoy it while taking a
bath.
Reseiration Polic, On Tennis Courts To Start Tomorroi
Since there has been an increas demand for use of the clay and varsi tennis courts during the summ months, the physical education depai ment has arranged a policy of reset ing courts which was used before t war.
The new policy will go into effect 1 morrow and will contiune throogho the summer. The plan applies to ) students, faculty and townspeople <i siring to utilize the court facilities.
Reservations will be made for i hour only so that all comers will ha an opportunity to play, the depai ment officials said.
The women are requested to tel phone 9426 to reserve the tennis cour They are instructed to pick up th< cards prior to playing on the cour The reservation cards must be pi sented before a court will be releasi Women will be able to get reservati cards in the women’s locker room.
Men students will be able to ma reservations by telephone or at t men’s locker room. Officials eXDphasiz the fact that players would not permitted the use of the courts unle they had secured reservation cards.
Clothes make the man; with a woi an, however, they just serve to sh< how she’s made.
—Ga. Te<
Sales and Repairs
on
WATCHES
and
JEWELRY
GODWIN
Jewehy Company
Beneath Sotton*s Drug Stm'e
Cooked the Way You Uhe It!
—	Chicken	in	the	Roo^
Sizzling Steaks
Hamborgers
Sea Foods
^ort Orden
BRADTS
on the Durham Road
BE COMFORTABLE
RIDE IN A
CAROLINA CAB
DIAL
4811
DIAL
(Carolina Sport Shop
Walk . . . PLAY In These Shoes . . . They Can Take It ! !
For Camping
Wa
Lasting Quality in These GIRLS’ SPAULDING SADDLE OXFORDS
Flattering, Comfortable GIRLS’ LOAFERS
Durable RUBBER SOLE MOCCASINS
Relax in the latest Rub-ber and Leather Sole Men’s Sandals
Men’s and Ladies’ Tennis Shoes
“T” up in style and comfort
—GOLF SHOES “IT PAYS TO PLAY”
(Laroiina Soort