PAGE TWO
THE DAILY TAB HEEL
SATURDAY, JUNE 22, 1946
Good Entertainment"
Sweltering summer school students at the University have found something to complain about besides the heat in the lack of student entertainment on the campus.
The first two weeks of this first summer session has been barren of good student entertainment. Graham Memorial Student Union, under the leadership of its capable young director. Rice, has blossomed forth this weekend with a program destined to help the students forget about the weather and
enjoy themselves.
A dance in the Y court tonight will follow last night s Get-Together^* in Graham Memorial, and Miss Rice has plans for more such entertainment programs in the future, which include making the Saturday night dance in the YMCA court a weekly affair.
While Miss Rice continues to devote her efforts towards alleviating student complaints that “there’s nothing to do here thi« summer,” on a very meagre budget, the Student Entertainment Committee, an organization supposed to furnish the students with entertainment programs throughout the year, does not function in the summer session.
For the three regular school quarters, every Carolina student pays two dollars quarterly. This money is supposed to be used to provide the student body with leading artists from the entertainment world, although students have justly questioned the actions of this committee over the past quarter.
In the summer, no entertainment fee is charged, the committee does not function, and students are left high and dry as far as planned recreational activities are concerned.
Miss Rice is to be commended for her efforts in providing entertainment. Unfortunately, she is limited in the amount of money she can spend, but even so, she produced entertainment during the spring quarter just past that topped that of the Student Entertainment Committee in the opinions of many students.
Students deserve some good recreational programs here in the summer as much as at any other time of year. A way should be provided to furnish it.
DYING FROM FAMINE
Somewhere in this world a person is dying from famine each time your heart beats.
An emergency food relief drive is now under way in Chapel Hill. Famine and the threat of famine are causing untold suffering and unrest in widely separated areas of the globe. The immense resources of our own great country are the sole remaining hope of a starving world, but great as our resources are, they are only as strong as the support of the American people behind them, and even our capacities will fail if we do not make real sacrifices.
Heading the students’ division of the Emergency Fund Collection is William H. Poteat of the University YMCA, who has requested that any students interested in working with him on the drive drop by his office in the YMCA.
It is Mr. Poteat’s belief, and rightly so, that a student committee is the most logical group to organize the food relief project. Because Carolina students are continuously beseeched by various organizations sponsoring various drives for varied purposes, it is only natural that they have become averse to any further collection drives, both mentally and monetarily.
Still, the food problem is critical. Those members of the student body who witnessed some of the suffering overseas during the war can testify to that fact, and according to all who have studied the situation, it is even worse now.
We hope that several of the student leaders on the campus will be interested in helping with the drive. Anyone desirous of contributing a small amount of time and effort towards helping someone less fortunate live through this period of world famine should drop into the secretary’s office at the Y.
Why aren’t the boys who work behind the soda fountain in the Book Ex equipped with regular ice cream scoops so that it wouldn’t be necessary for them to manipulate every scoop of ice cream with their thumbs prior to presenting it to the waiting customer ?
The official newBpaper of the Publications Board of the Univeraity of North Carolina Chapel Hill, where it is published daily, except Mondays, examination and vacation periods; darinir the official summer terms, it is published semi-weekly on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Entered as second-class matter at the post office at Chapel Hill, N. C., under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription price; 55.00 per college year.
COMPLETE LEASED WIRE SERVICE OF UNITED PRESS
BILL WOESTENDIEK	Editor
ROLAND GIDUZ.............................................Managing	Editor
FRED FLAGLER ».............................................Sports	Editor
BILL SELIG  ........................................  Business	Manager
CLIFFORD HEMINGWAY ................................Circulation	Manager
Associatb Editor: Ray Conner.
Eoitosiax. B«abd: G«ne Aenchbacher.
Dbk Editqb: Bill Jabine.
Nbws Staff: Sally Woodhull, Thomas Abemethy, Jane Hutson, Eleanor Craig, Burke Shipley, Tomie Cates, Bob Morrison, Arnold Schulman, Boy Moose, A1 Lowenstein, Sam Whitehall, Helen Highwater.
COFY Editor: Hill Wolfe Night Spcmm Editor: Jim Pharr.
SUBfOUPTiON Managb: Brantley McCoy. Busn«B88 Staff: Strowd Ward, Barbara Tborson, Marjorie Rigga. AimiUiNQ Staff: Adelaide McUrty, Jane Peete, Nancy Wancii.
Not-So>Fresh Kernels of Korn
Edited by Ray Omner
She stepped out of the bath-tub onto the bathroom scales. Hubby came in the back door, observed what she was doing and inquired: ‘*How many pounds this morning, honey?” Without bothering to look around, she answeerd: ^Fifty and be sure you don’t leave the tongs on the back porch!”
* * *
Son: "Say, Dad, what does it mean when the paper says some man went to a convention as a dele-gate-at-large ? ”
Dad: “It means his wife didn’t go with him, son.”
*	*	*
“Who was that cute girl you were talking to so long?”
“Oh, just an old grirl friend.” “What did she have to say?”
“No.”
—Rebel.
*	*	*
“Are you allergic?”
“No, I’m Harry.”
“Were you inoculated?”
“No, I was drafted.^
“Got your appendix?”
“I haven’t been issued one yet.” “My God, man, don’t you know the King’s English?”
“The hell he is.”
—^Harpoon
*	*	*
Guy: “Where’d you get that southern accent?
Gal: “Honey Chile, I’ve been drinking out of Dixie cups.”
—The Watch.
*	*
Two goldbriclfs yrere ^tting on the bench at sick call. One turned to the other and said: “I'm achin’ ^ from neuralgia.”
“Howdy, padnah,” replied the other, “Ah’m Slim Jackson from Texas.”
—Camp Lejeune Globe.
*	*	*
Father: “Your new little brother has arrived.”
Very Modern Child: “Where’d he come from?”
Father: “From a far-away country.”
VMC: “Another damned alien.”
—North Islander.
*	?	?
Stude: “Going my way babe?” Coed: “My dear sir, I’ll have you to know that the public sidewalk is no place to speak to a strange girl who lives	at	Kenan	Dorm,	phone
7091.”
1st Frosh: “How far were you from the correct answer?”
2nd Frosh: “Two seats.**
*	* «
Jenny Dogface, the WAC, was on furlough. She greeted her old boy friend with “Notice anything different about me?”
“You’re not m uniform,” he said. “No, not that.”
“New hair-do?”
“No, something else.”
“Wearing more lipstick?”
“No.”
“Well, I give up.”
“Oh, you.” She stamped her foot. “I’m wearing my gas mask.”
—Dindsock.
ReprtoteifromAeMayiwneofEwnrfre^^ ________
S!Be never eouU hoU"s^nSS^^> bemAeduitged, ^firamJthf.ArmyJy
To the Student Body—
Entertainment Committee Reappointment Contested
The heat of summer school hasn’t changed a thing in student government. Your elected representatives still trample over the wishes of the students at break-neck speed. The “tumult and the shouting” of the recent campus campaigrns of office seekers have faded away and with it has gone the “sacred” promises to the voters.
Both political parties and all of the independent candidates promised you, the students, better entertainment for the coming year. How well you must remember the two dollars paid each quarter for student entertainment and the lack of any entertainment which followed. This inefficiency was administered by a student entertainment committee chairmaned by Allan Pan-nill who defended its shameful handling of student fees for entertainment with such absurd reasoning as that Chapel Hill is so “isolated” from the world that it is impossible to get good entertainers here. Amid the
The automobile motor began to pound, and finally stopped. The worried boy friend said to his companion: “I wonder what the knock could be?”
“Maybe,” said the blond girl friend, “it’s opportunity.”
uubms
Jack Dube and Bud Imbrey
Chapel Hillites: Along with the heat and the general inability to sleep we find ourselves skidding into the swimming pool (note: Why don’t you new girls get on the ball and get down there. The examination at the dispensary is practically painless). We heard that we men wear those bathing suits to avoid excess bacteria in the fine pool . - . and we thought that the army was the great leveler. . . . We also wish that certain individuals would bring their own cigarettes. We have •; had a great deal of trouble bumming
smokes due to the great masses of slackers with similar ideas.
Plug from our fans Dept.: We have been asked to mention to the management that the Tar Heel come across with a daily issue with just the masthead and a crossword puzzle, and of course a cut of their favorite colyumists on the back. Due to the great demand, we have a bit of an offer to make to you. Just tear off the top of Manning Hall, send it in with a law student and you will receive a picture of your idols in glorious technicolor.
Another Precinct Heard from Dept.: What with the struggle to resume our place in a settled society and the mad rush to gain our entree into Dr. Harland’s Archaeologry courses, we note that Congressman 0|Toole has raised that immortal Tree-Grows-In Burrough’s squawk regarding the Louis-Conn skirmish, “Somebody wuz robbed.” Just whom, he ain’t sure. He just claims thar weren’t enuf fight. We prefer to pocket our fabulous winnings and let a firm conviction remain an f. c.
Addenda: We see where Miss Rice, name of Martha, and her great big hall are sponsoring a “Get-together Gambol.” We say, in passing, “Please, girls, this is almost your last chance. We WILL be there.”
Eyetbms: Cotton (Raindrop, Marie, Edsey, etc.) alias Miss Falls tells us that she got a big diamond ring from her boy friend. “Is it honest-to-gosh real?” queried Raindrop. “If it ain’t,” responded the lug, **I got stuck
for half-a-dollar!” . . . Gloria Day, of “Blame on Mame” fame, tells us that she doesn’t care if her boy friend fulfills her smallest desires. “Just the larger ones,” smiles Gloria.
Kissoff Dept.: If all the people who eat at Harry’s were put at one table, they would reach. . . .
^ocietp
AAB Sv. Unit (Nome,Alaska) APO 732, c/o PM Seattle, Wash.
Dear Miss: (We hope)
We have a problem to be solved here at the Army Air Base in Nome, and naturally when a problem is presented, someone must be called upon to solve it. Our only obstacle to complete serenity in this forsaken ice-country is the lack of mail and we can do nothing more about it than to call upon you, the coeds of the University of North Carolina, to end our plight.
Hopefully,	^
THE NOME OUTCASTS Girls, this is a serious problem which only we, the coeds, can solve. It would do much toward spurring on those poor, freezing darlings all the way up there in Alaska if we were to drop them a few lines real soon. The Nome Outcasts are in reality: Pvts. Louis W. Pintar, Ralph E. Puls; Cpl. Ray L. Cooper; Pfcs. John W. Brown, James R. Wood, Carl V. Willingham, John F. Boyle, Paul Dowdy; and Sgt Dana G. Ware. Let’s all give the good word!—^Ramona Cottin.
vociferous rationalizations of Pannill’s Board of Bunglers, the students (over 3,000 of them) continued to pay two dollars a quarter for such trash ias ^‘artists” who could play the piano with mittens on while Duke (not quite so isolated, 12 miles away) got all the top flight entertainers.
Thursday night in the Student Legislature, President of the Student Body, Dewey Dorsett reappointed Allan Pannill as chairman of the Student Entertainment Committee. The Legislature (your representatives) ratified the appointment by a vote of 28-10. Reappointment is tantamount to approval of the “inactivity” of the Committee in the past. Because so many students spoke to me about our lack of entertainment when I ran and was elected to the Legislature last month, I bring this matter to your attention. A few of those voting to retain Pannill were Ben Perlmutter, Alec Davis, Winston Broadfoot, John Suratt, Bill Miller, Jim McNider, A1 Lowenstein, Tom Eller and Bob Morrison. There are nineteen others whose names may be obtained from Pete Pully, acting Clerk of the Legislature. If you agree with the Entertainment Committee’s work of the past and would like to see its policies continued, your public servants have served you well. If not you may see your legislators or the President of the Student Body and tell them so. They will be forced to change their decision for the mightiest force in politics, the voting right, still rests with you, the students.
Jim Taylor
Pome Not drunk is he Who from the floor Can rise again And still drink more;
But drunk is he Who prostrate lies Without the power To drink or rise.
*	* *
“What kind of a dress did she wear to the party last night?”
“I can’t remember; I think it was checked.”
“You don’t say! That must have been a helluva party!”
—Rebel.
Sound Track
By Bob Finehout
Prognostication leaves me flat. I’ve looked into crystal balls and seen nothing but my own puss, and as for tea leaves, I could get as much occult inspiration < from a bowl of alphabet soup. But right now I am going to shinny out on a limb and say that Mr. Darryl Zanuck of Hollywood is soon to give birth to a great big box office bonanza.
Mr. Zanuck has adjusted his kleig lights on the motion picture version of Somerset Maugham’s novel “The Razor’s Edge,” which when the Book of the Month club and the Saturday Evening Post got their teeth into, turned back to the author a very tidy profit With Zanuck in charge of the movie production, he should strike oil on his own sound stage, so to speak.
Several times in the past Darryl Zanuck, and his studio. Twentieth Century-Fox, have tried to fill an inside straight in pictures—I have in mind “Wilson,” “The Ox-Bow Incident,” and “The Purple Heart”—hat right now they’ve got a flush and the pot is big. Tyrone Power who doffed grease paint to fly transport ships for the marines, has been inked for the
lead and Gene Tierney, who hit pay dirt in “Leave Her to Heaven,” is the slightly unscrupulous Isabel. John Payne, Anne Baxter, Clifton Webb and Herbert Marshall are the other star names, and that’s enough for any theater marquee.
I don’t think it would be fair to accuse Mr. Zanuck of using a cold deck, but anyhow, to assure himself of raking in the chips, the whole show is being done in Technicolor. I pass.
. . . Three of P. Scott Fitzgerald’s books “The Great Gatsby,” “The Last Tycoon,” and “Babylon Revisited” are before the cameras. . . . Holljrwood has long recognized the screen possibilities of Hemingway’s writing and right now two of his short stories are in production: “The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber” and “The Killers.” . . , James Cagney has the top slot in 20th’s “13 Rue Madelaine.” . . .
An idea to make the summer more tolerable: A Festival of John Ford Pictures: “The Grapes of Wrath,” “The Informer,” “The Long Voyage Home,” and “How Green Was My Valley.” Speaking of revivals, how about “The 39 Steps,” “Shadow of a Doubt” and “Citizen Kane,” being exhumed to offset trivia like “Two Sisters from Boston?”
Crossword Puzzle
ANSWEK TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE
ACROSS
1—l«a«thy 5—Cr> Of despair »—Watch aecretty 13—Mountain (comb.
form)
13—Spouse 1«—Sooner than 15—Muok 1«—Talk wildly
17—Observed
18—Piece of china
20—Harbors
21—Small shrub
23—Not tied
24—Perhaps
25—Unable
26—Egyptian god
28—Social Insects
29—Investment SO—^Bdge
31—Small fish
32—^Pasliion
33—Calm down
34—Nova ScoUa (abbr.)
35—Marketed
88—Plate used In church 37—Light boat 3#—Old Persian priests 49—French revolationlAt
M—^Flying
43—Away from home
45—Mimic
46—^Babylonian daltv 47_Ooln of IndU 48-Aetnal
—Snaky «i»h 60—Autocrat
1	2	3	4		r-		7	a		9	lO	11
12					li					W		
>5				lb					17			
		w	If									
Z.I	21						Zi					
										%		i?
												
91				A					fr			
			95				%					
												
					%				%		ly	
MS					Ml			n				
					m				!T"			
DOWN !¦ Bhip’a dlarr S—Moutb (eomb.
form) t—Befinnar 4—Depart t—Vl^in mafcw Bathe T—OoddCM o( discord
pote» •—Wise man
10—Put teOM
11—««<»»¦
1*—Toes wildly VF—Olrt In fthimiMy
week-¦hope (elaas) M-SnuS UbT 11—With toU foree 2—Kind of canleDer B—Terra firma SS—The 3fT—ao be it W—Tartety of tiay >0 Amy food It nehaUMe
n—’iva In Uie------
SB—Ta^e M-«1sed W Sector 3^-Auuied walk
41—BOney maker 41—WbiBaa la "Itorte Qoeear 44 Bead aarfaetnc
47—Xb direction of