LlSlilRT
UnlTwsity of North Carolina Chapel Hill, C.
1-28-47
Graham Memorial Sponsors Informal * F’ Court Dance Tonight
Director Rice Requests Coeds To Come Stag
Records to Be Played; Bands ^heduled
By Sam Whitehall
The first weekly open-air Y Court dance of the summer session is slated for this evening from 8:30 to 11:30 in the plaza immediately in front o f the University YMCA, under the sponsorship of Graham Memorial.
The very latest popular dance melodies will be played for the affair, on recorded discs by the nation’s top sweet and swing bands. Facilities of the University Book Exchange soda fountain will remain open for these •weekly dances on succeeding Saturday nights, but will not, due to technical difiSculties, be open tonight. However, fountain service at the two nearby Scuttlebutts will be available.
Coeds Come Stag
Clarifying the status of the affairs, which have proven exceedingly popular in the past, Graham Memorial director Martha Rice stated, “I would like to encourage all coeds, as well as men students to come stag, and get acquainted. As always these affairs will btf completely informal, and if you can’t dance, come out and" watch the crowd.”
“As is the practice at many other schools, double-breaking will be the rule all the way through the dancing, I sincerely hope more coeds will take the initiative in breaking down the heavy stag lines at our dances, by breaking on an equal status with men students. All of our dances thi i summer will be of this type, and I feel sure they will be much more enjoyable this way.”
Orchestras and Combo’s
On Saturdays during the summer when classes are scheduled local dance bands and “jazz combo’s” will be booked for the occasions.
Tonight's dancing will be under the direction of Bob Colepangh, Graham Memorial efflee ^eeiatant. Several <ti*-ferent types of dances are scheduled for the future on the weekly dance slate. Popularized by former student
See DANCE, page I
Graham To Speak At Commencement
Dr. Frank P. Graham, President of the University, will deliver the commencement address at Southwestern Louisiana Institute, Lafayette, La., today.
Last Saturday, Dr. Graham was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Amherst College, Amherst, Massachusetts, where he delivered the commencement address concerning mechanisms and the atomic age.
Preceeding this, on June 6th, Dr. Graham addressed the Alumni Association at Harvard where he also received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree.
NEWS
• Committee AppointmcBts
• AVC Elects Spearman
• Overseas Relief Drive
THE ONLY COLLEGE DAtLY IN THE SOUTHEAST-
VOLUME LV
United Press
CHAPEL HILL, N. C.. SATURDAY, JUNE 22, 1946
NUMBER 3
Legislature Okays Dorsetfs Committees
Overseas Relief Drive Launched In Community
Local Residents Urged to Aid Starving
In Nationwide Emergency Fund Campaign
Chapel Hill’s appeal for contributions to the nation-wide Emergency Fund Collection for overseas relief, headed by Secretary Henry A. Wallace, was launched today following a final organization meeting last night when workers were given final instructions.
Between now and next Wednesday ?	¦	¦'	.
house-to-house canvassers are sched
<S>
uled to give the residents of every home an opportunity to buy tickets to “a banquet you will never eat, that a family overseas may not starve.”
The plan is to wind up the intensive phase of the campaign by next Wednesday, and canvassers have been asked to try to turn in reports before then. Workers who have not completed their calls, however, will be given more time.
E. Carrington Smith, president of the Chapel Hill Merchants Association, is making a special appeal to the business men, and W. T. Huntley, local merchant, heads up a special gifts committee. Guy B. Phillips and William H. Poteat are heading up the appeal for the University faculty and students. Hubert Robeitson is presenting the appeal to the Negrro citizens.
Walter Baucom is serving as treasurer, and the Bank of Chapel Hill is serving as a central collecting agency.
Mrs. James L. Godfrey, who, with Se€ OVERSEAS, page U
Vesper Services To Be Sponsored By Local Churches
During the summer session all churches of Chapel Hill will cooperate in sponsoring an interdenominational Sunday evening vesper service in Hill Hall. This service will feature a short devotional talk by various students on the campus and by local ministers and church leaders, preceded by a short organ recital by Monte Howell.
Mr. Howell, recently graduated from the University with highest honors in music, is well known for his Sunday evening organ recitals at the Episcopal Church through the winter and spring terms.
As this is the only regular Sunday evening vesper in Chapel Hill all students are cordially invited to attend. The first service will be held tomro-row evening, at 8 p.m.
French House Picnic Planned For Weekend
To Be Held Today At Eastwood Lake
Weekend plans for students and faculty at the French House include a picnic at Eastwood lake Saturday aftemocn, and on Sunday a visit to the exhibition of French paintings in Person Hall. Highlighting the evening programs next week will be a talk by Dr. Lee Wiley of the French department of the University of North Carolina.
Dr. Hugo Giduz, director of the French House, has announced that people interested in the French language will be welcome at any of the evening programs, which begin at 7 p. m. Other programs next week will Include French inovies .on Monday night, songs and games on Tuesday, and the presentation of dramatic skits by residents of the house on Thursday.
Hardre’s Talk
Chief event of last week’s program was the commemoration of the founding of the Free French movement, celebrated at the house with a speech by Professor Rene Hardre of the French department at Woman’s College, Greensboro.
Dr. Hardre, one of the original founders of the French House, spoke of conditions in France just preceding her fall, and of the successful efforts of General Charles DeGaulle to inaugurate a resistance movement after the German victory.
Friday night ’Dr. J. C. Lyons of the French department of the University of North Carolina spoke.
Save your copies of the Daily Tar Heel and let us have them bound for you.
Board Flays Carolina Mag Management
Meeting for the first time Tuesday with its newly appointed faculty members, the Publications Board appointed Brantley McCoy subscription manager of the Daily Tar Heel.
The Board passed the motion that the subscription manager be paid a sarary of $3.00 per week and that he receive ten percent commission on all personally solicited subscriptions.
Lear Reports J. M. Lear, faculty advisor to the Board, reported on the management of the Carolina Mag during the past year. A number of engravings which were ordered for Issues of the Mag and were never published were shown to the Board. Lear declared that the student body “has suffered considerable loss because of the poor management of the editor and business manager of the Mag,” and the Board voted to pay no salaires to these two officers.
All busines managers of student publications were requested to see Lear to frame budgets for the coming school yeai>
The Board wiU meet again next month to consider these budgets and continue a study of fee allocation.
AVC Elects Walter Spearman To Vice ^airmanship Office
Journalism Professor to Be One of Eight
To Serve on National Planning Committee
Walter Spearman, associate professor of journalism here, was one of eight regional vice-chairmen elected at the first convention of the American Veterans Committee, held in Des Moines on June 16 with 840 voting delegates. Mr. Spearman was the first chairman of the local chapter of American Veterans Committee when '	.1	¦¦¦ #it was organized in the spring. As
regional vice chairman he will serve
Open House Scheduled By Western N.C. Club
The Western North Carolina Club will have an open house meeting from 8 to 10 o’clock next Thursday evening in the Candlelight room of Graham Memorial. All students from western North Carolina are cordially invited to attend, and club officers have specially requested new students to come to the meeting and get acquainted.
Old Well Once Gave Spiked Water-
Traditional Landmark Is Modeled After Temple of Love; Also Provided Students With Bath Water in Old Days
By Arnold Schulman
Over a century and a half ago the old well in front of South Building was more than just a traditional landmark of the campus. It was only a country well then, with a ^chain and windlass, but it furnished all of the water that the students used.
When a warm bath was desired in that day the more energetic beavers would draw the water from the old oaken bucket, then heat it over a wood fire built behind Old East. It is also reported that after the trustees pass-**<] regulations condemning the practice of keeping a barrel of whiskey in one’s room, some of the students found it necessary to drink the water, too.
Whiskey in the Well
One incident in particular that has been verbally recorded from the time the new temperance society was formed concerns the senior who was l)oing pursued by Dr. Swain, then Pfc.sident of the University.
According to the legend, the boy, afraid to be caught with the whiskey threw a half-empty bottle in the well as he ran past. The temperance boys, for the next two days formed a congee OLD well, page U
Nineteenth century equivalent of the “Y” was the Old WelL
GroupsWinConfirmation With Little Opposition
Douglass Hunt Honored for Leadership;
Bill Introduced to Lengthen Coed Hours
Highlighting the Thursday night session of the Student Legislature was the approval of new committees appointed by Dewey Dorsett, new student body president. Only opposition registered was against the Student Entertainment Committee appointees.
Jim Taylor, Dave Pittman, and Dan McFarland stated that Dorsett’s appointment of Allan Pannill and Coline Smith to the entertainment committee of which they were members during the past year should not have been made “because of the poor performance of that committee.” Charlie Fulton and Alex Daxis spoke for the appointees, and they were approved by a vote of 28-10.
The five executive committees approved were: Elections, J. B. Hey-wood, chairman, Emile Saleeby, Jean Huske, Elwood Mixon, Bill Smith, Ben Townsend, John Surratt, John McDowell, Tom Eller, Gloria Robbins, Andy Williamson; Orientation, Pat Kelly, chairman, Duke Wilder, Tookie Hodgson, Mike Carr, Alex Davis, Bob Kemp, Jim Johnson, Janet Johnston, Ann Cutts, Roland Giduz.
Student Audit Board, Pete Pully, chairman, Carroll Money, Norman Pless, Dean E. L. Alackie, Jimmy Williams; Entertainment, Allan Pannill, chairman. Coline Smith, Teeny Thomas, Johnny Campbell; Budget, Johnny Jones, chairman, Charlie Fulton, Bill Lamkin, Charlie Donnell, Jim Lilly, Ann Robinson, George Sten-house, Nat Dodson, Fran Golden, Mar-riotte Stewart, Betty Washburn. Broadfoot Appointed Charlie Warren, speaker, appointed Winston Broadfoot chaimaan of a special conmittee on legislative bystanding committees, the rules pertaining to proxies and absences, and laws to review the functions of the the present legislative rules. It is to submit its findings at the next meeting. Other members of the committee are Alex Davis, Charlie Fulton, Tom Eller, and Charlie Warren.
Ales Davis introduced a bill to appropriate funds not to exceed $224 to the student council for filing cabinets, case books, stationery, printing of the constitution, rental of robes, and miscellaneous office supplies.
A bill to appropriate money for printing the constitution was introduced and referred to the finance committee.
See LEGISLATURE, page U
DEWEY DORSETT
on the national planning committee.
Herbert Bodman, delegate to the convention from the local chapter, wired the group of Spearman’s election. A report on the convention was made to the group this week by Mr. Spearman. The organization was founded exclusively for World War II veterans. A goal of one million members by next June was set.
The platform adopted includes sup-
See SPEARMAN, page U
HPB Releases Agreement
The House Privileges Board has released its Summer Session coed visiting privileges agreement to all fraternity houses on campus. Its provisions went into effect last night at 6 p. m- Copies of the agreement have been posted in all fraternity houses, coed dormitories, and sorority houses, for the convenience of old and new students.
The agreement governs the privilege of coeds visiting fraternity houses, and the fraternity conduct in the presence of coed visitors. All fraternity houses and all coeds, both graduate and undergraduate, are responsible to this agreement.
The HPB has the authority to issue the agreement and the duty to see that if is enforced. This enforcement comes through periodic inspections and voluntary reporting hy fraternities of any violations that have occurred in the home or on the premises. The signed agreement is a pledge by the fraternity house to uphold its provisions and all members of the Interfratemitjf Council, HPB, and all Coeds are bound by the Honor Code to report violations of this agreement.
For the benefit of the new coeds and fraternity members who have just returned to campus this quarter, the HPB wishes to call attention to the provisions that affect them:
1. Only those organizations whose houses have been approved by the HPB shall be allowed coed visiting privileges.
Approved houses may entertain women students only in the social rooms, hall, porches, and dining halls cf their houses. Approved houses shall be open to coeds from 12 o’clock noon until the coed dormitory closing time. /
4. There shall be no consumption of alcoholic beverages in the presence of, or by, coeds in the house or on the premises of any organization.
5. Violations of the rules of this agreement by any coed shall be considered an Honor Council offense.
6. Every organization is responsible for any violations of the rules of this agreement which occurs in its house or on its premises. Fraternity members, boarders, and visitors are responsible to this agreement.
The HPB hopes that all coeds and fraternity members will become familiar with the agreement, and it trusts that violations during these Summer Sessions will be held to the minimum.
2.
3.
