PAGE TWO
THE DAILY TAB BSBL
TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 1946
Something Must Be Done—
As is noted in a column ap|>earing elsewhere on this page, Ihe University is faced with a very serious problem in the matter of professors’ salaries.
This problem cannot be regarded too lightly, for statistics show and daily events prove that the University of North Carolina is losing, and will continue to lose, its best professors to schools than can pay more money.
As was asserted in the report made to Governor R. Gregg Cherry and to the trustees of the consolidated University last week by Controller W. D. Carmichael, Jr., all three of the institutions making up the consolidated university are in grave danger of losing many of their professors because of the salary scale and competition with other institutions “that have strained loyalties to the breaking point.”
Figures prove that the local faculty members are greatly underpaid in these days of increasing living expenses. In a survey conducted among the members of the Association of American Universities, the highest ranking organization of its kind in the country, that included such leading institutions of learning as M. I. T., Columbia, Minnesota, Missouri, Cornell, Princeton, Yale, Pennsylvania, California, Stanford, and others including the University of North Carolina, the following information was shown in relation to Carolina’s teaching salaries:
Carolina boasts more full professors at the present time than does any other college or university in the association, but that is the only category in which the University here is near the top. The data shows the average professor’s salary to be over $5,000 yearly, while Carolina professors receive an average of $4500.
Similarly, the information reveals that assistant professors about the country receive over $3000 as compared to the local assistant’s average pay of $2600. Instructors here are paid about $1700 as compared to an average of $2300 yearly elsewhere.
In an effort to keep capable men here, the University has given them full professorships in the past, but it has become increasingly apparent that even the most loyal members of the faculty cannot live on their titles, and they have been forced to answer the call of other schools able and willing to spend money for good men.
The University, has recognized this fact and is trying to do something about it. Several suggestions have been made, including a solution that would standardize teaching salaries throughout the country, but that seems rather far-fetched in the view of present day happenings.
It has been mentioned that the students may be willing to pay more in the form of increased tuition in order to help keep top-notch faculty members. It is true that such a move would bring more money for that purpose but it could not all be spent on professors* salaries, for the University has too many other problems existing at the present time to spend all such money on one item.
Still, SOMETHING MUST BE DONE. The situation grows worse daily, and a rapidly-expanding institution like the University of North Carolina cannot afford to lose its most brilliant and most creative faculty members at a time when it is sup-XK)sed to be growing in size and importance daily.
To The New Students---------------
The University ^nd the Order of the Grail, as honorary society dedicated to the betterment of the University, annually conduct campaigns to preserve the grass on the campus. While it may seem to be a trifling matter, well-kept lawns can add immeasurably to the general attractiveness of the campus.
Returning students each fall complain that “summer school students who didn’t care” walked all over the lawn and ruined the grass. While this may or may not be the case, it is true that the lawns at present are in good shape. With just a little effort they can be kept that way throughout the summer and into the fall.
The official newspaper of the Publications Board of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where it is published daily, except Mondays, examination and vacation periods; during the official summer terms, it is published semi-weekly on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Entered as second-class matter at the post office at Chapel Hill, N. C., under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription price: $6.00 per college year.
COMPLETE LEASED WIRE SERVICE OF UNITED PRESS	
BILL WOESTENDIEK		Editor
ROLAND GIDUZ	
FRED FLAGLER 		
BILL SELIG	
CLIFFORD HEMINGWAY		Circulation Manager
Associati Editor: Ray Conner.
Editobial Boabd: Gene Aenchbacher.
Desk Editor: Bill Jabine.
Nbws Reporters: Jane Hutson, Eleanor Craig, Bob Morrison, Arnold Schulman, Roy Moose, Sally Woodhull, A1 Lowenstein, Sam Whitehall, Hden Highwater.
Niobt Sports Editor: Jim Pharr.
Subscription Manager: Brantley McCoy.
Business Staff: Strowd Ward, Barbara Thorson, Marjorie Riggs. AunorrisiNO Staff: Adelaide McLarty, Jane Peete, Nancy Waugh.
Take It or Leaee It
The Stifled Cjy for Higher Professors" Salaries Reheard
By Eddie **Blackie** Black Not so long ago, at least not in the memories of some of us, a cry was raised. Thanks to certain individuals said cry was stifled into silence.
Again that cry is being heard and whether or not it will be stifled this' time will depend on the students and^
others directly concerned.
The cry . . . raising of Professor’s salaries.
Because of the low salaries here at the University many good men have left to teach elsewhere. These men left not because conditions here were not exactly what they wanted, not because they were dissatisfied with their associates, not because they couldn’t get along with the Carolina liberal spirit, but because they were not able to sustain a decent living on their meager salary.
Many rationalize and claim that the increase must come from the State legislature and therefore they are unable to remedy the existing situation. It is true that the legislature must do it, but they can move the legislature.
A few facts on the present setup might help and enlighten the outlook. To start with the Veterans are paying $6 an hour whereas only those in Zone 3 (New Yoi;k) paid that price. Carolina students paid $1.65, now as Veterans they pay $6. Secondly the classes at present are almost doubled
Rejuvenated UVA Growing
By Hugh Wells
• An energetic and very sincere group of young veterans on this campus have recently seen fit to lend their time and talent to the task of rebuilding and revamping a somewhat lifeless University Veterans Association. The work began last quarter with a concentrated and successful effort to stop a motion to discontinue the UVA, as such, followed up by an election of new officers. These newly elected officers, and the Board of Governors appointed by them, seem to have their heads set toward making the UVA a truly effective and useful student organization, and judging from the support and encouragement they have thus far received it would seem safe to say that they will get j»st what they’re after.
These young men, meaning the new officers and board of governors, are anxious, however, to inform,each and every veteran on the campus of the aims and objectives of the UVA, and to solicit the moral and active support of just as many veterans, new and old, who can possibly firtd the time to pitch in. The major purpose of the UVA is to bind all veteifans on the campus, male and female, together that they may effectively present the views and the problems of the student vets, and to work for all things which they consider of importance to our school, state and country, and to the world as' a whole. They hope to work with other such organizations on other campuses throughout the country, and to give the impression when ajnd where ever possible that North 5 Carolina veterans are capable of leading the field and pointing the way4 Specific objectives, which are urgeiit in the minds of many, are: bettji^r housing facilities for married and ^tingle veterans, increased facilitie^f overall in order that more studentjl may be accommodated, higher sallies for teachers, and an increase injrihe subsistence allowances for veter^s.
The present leade^ of the UVA feel that it is of the Utmost importance that the public re»ize that thousands of veterans are n/ot being admitted to college, due to ^he fact that there is no room for th^m, and not enough instructors if the room was to be had. The average/ veteran has given up two to four/of the best and most productive years of his, or her, life in bringing /to a successful conclusion the pasi world war; nothing can justify fiis having to lose more of his valuabfh time through indefinite delay of nis formal education. Facts prove that the peak of enrollment has not yet neen reached; more and more veterans I are wanting to come to Carolina. Th(» leaders of the UVA feel that the 1 ime for action is now. They heartily emcourage each and every interested veteran to join in the crusade and workl with them. They heartily appeal tojthose veterans who are not presently/ interested to think again and see if they, too, cannot see the need for action.
The U' VA has a social side—^in the form of k clubhouse which will open thi^ Wedr lesday.
UVA fi nances are handled through the Student Audit Offices, books are open to ijiupection at all times.
and in some cases tripled in size.
I believe that in view of the above facts it can be plainly seen that the amount paid per student is at least twice that of several years ago.
The Professor’s salaries are the same as several years ago. ^The Professor’s work, because of the larger classes, has doubled.
Any Professor in his right mind is not going to stay here when he has these conditions to contend with. Those not in their right minds, those who do stay, stay because of their deep love of the University, a love which they place above the finer things of life.
Every day, every quarter’s end, the students lose. Faculty men investigate, accept positions elsewhere. Potential faculty men investigate, accept positions elsewhere.
To get good men you must pay their worth. With better salaries come better men.
Of course, the old story will be given, that the State legislature must make the appropriations. It always has been given and it will be given again, but really don’t you think its a little worn out.
The legislature can be kicked out of its smouldering doldrums, by you the students, and it can make the appropriations because it has a large surplus upon which it can draw. Is not education one of the prime duties cf a state to its citizens?
Help yourself, talk it up, write letters, back up any movement toward salary increase.
Don’t let them silence the cry again.
UNCAlumnus Said Youngest NY Producer
Ex-Editor of the Mag, founder and first Chairman of the Carolina Workshop and tappee of the Golden Fleece, Richard Adler has returned-to Chapel Hill for a visit and retreat from his duties as promotion director of the play “On Whitman Avenue,” labeled as Broadway’s “most controversial play of the year!” by PM.
Recently released from the Navy, ex-Lt. (jg) Adler, now stajring with Paul Green, describes Maxine Wood’s play as the most important contribution to the American social theatre in the past few years.
“This play, the simple story of a Negro family asked to move into a White suburban neighborhood is the first important Negro problem play that do^s not hint at miscegenation as a solutio* to the problem. It also is the first problem play to bring the Negro north of the Mason Dixon Line and place him in a completely modern situation,” Adler said.
When the neighbors of Whitman Avenue get together “a lynching bee —Northern style ensues.” The play ends with the Negro family leaving their flat, but their exit is with dignity. On the other hand, the white landlord family is completely destroyed by the virus of their own prejudices. Though their house still stands and their property value has not diminished, the breakdown of their family life is inevitable with the two children and the father leaving the mother standing at the portals of her home.
Canada Lee, ex-prizefighter, and star of Radio, Stage and Screen is the lead in the play and its co-producer. Mr. Lee, who became famous overnight as the star of Paul Green’s “Native Son,” is the first negro to have produced a play in the history of the Theatre.
Adler has recently been made a member of the Canada Lee, Mark Marvin producing firm as junior partner. He is the youngest producer on Broadway.
“It is important for every young thinking American to see “On Whitman Avenue,” Adler said, “for it not only takes a big stride in the direction of racial tolerance, but it acts as a huge magnifying mirror to the audiences of reaction who see themselves as the intolerants portrayed on the stage. They are victims of their own cultural patterns but it is to their advantage that they see this play.”
Late to bed and early to rise Makes » girl aag^gy Draggy and Baggy Under the eyes.
—Stratford Traveller.
VACATION DAYS
Crossword Puzzle
AM8WCR TO
PBKviors rczzLc
ACS088
1—^How one ahonld fed after *
vackUon 9—Vaestioii fames
13—Dress
14—efanteb
15—nienyl (aymb.) 1»—‘Xta tbe
lone ¦. .**
IS—Pilee (mlito.)
»—Wiitei's.need 31—Oirl’s n*me 23—Back of neck
34—Went to «Uimer
35—Pslntex'e
SS—Bird seen on Tuatims 33—Mart of wound SO—TboN irbo pay back
S3—Not only vlcked but atrodoni 34—Untmtlifiil person W—Wliat Tacstioii often (iTea 38—Beady to pinek
from the tree
41—Over (poet)
43—Snov (Seot.)
43—They're aeen by tourists
44—Xrf>T« Mngl 4»—Traobled coimtiy
45—6kfflfnI plan 43—XnqMCtor
' Oeanal (abbr.) BO—Can be need as food
83—CompaM poliit
84—Hot obitons Se—NorUi Afilcaa
nattre SS—Bearer of tidlnga &»—Military itockadee
AND
R6E
1		>	i	S*			7		5"		U	&
IS			•									
s-			fb			1						
19		»		21				Ut	a	&		
2rt			2j»							H		
8»					30				H			
		iz		9»		%						
ii	9b					57		%			59	40
HI				*<2				Hi				
4M			hS		%					H6		
H9			50	5f			'		52		hi	
5H		55				e				57		
56							59					
DMr. to ValM Ftttare SnMaOc. lac.
DOWN 1—Dangeroofl plaeee for eanoiata 3—Pagan
3—Street (abbr.)
4—Inside adTloe 8—Wandered 8—Lifeless
7—Frequent paee tt climbers
8—Toc’n find It Id HawaU
•~Tlie ontdoon Ift—Right (abbr.) 11—What Taeatloaiflt must be 13—Mfetal fastenew IV—<Attow poison so—Crookedness 3S—^Finest Tacatlm land
35—8Uk worm
37—Monkey
30—Joined again
SI—Vacation resort SS—^Lifesavlng senrloe (abbr.)
38—Shine up
36—Group of ball dubs
37 avis
39—Zoroastrian
40—Chemical compounds
43—Brook flowing into lake 45—Bristle 47—French priest
51—Everything
52—Period of time 55—Bromine (symb.) 57—Bishop (abbr.)
Profs, Harken Unto Us!
By Roy C. Moose
Added to the already prevalent sizzling, humid atmosphere, the natural biological laziness in man, and the intoxicating odor of B. O. (if fel-low students are the lethargic of teaching used by some of th fessors that tend to make so bulists of us all. Summer sch' self is a painful ordeal, but to to endure some of the boring lectk.es now given has made the student IWy cry out in agony. Such treatment is downright cruelty!
It is not the material that is p sented but the manner in which it conveyed to the student. Every s dent realizes he is here for one p pose, to get an education. We a willing to work hard for that educ; tion ,and the various departments o it to us to see that every advanta; for getting that education is give: the student. Since most of us ar here on the Uncle Samuel Scholar ship, the school is being paid extravagantly for that which they impart.
Realizing that it is the professor’s prerogative to conduct the class the way he sees fit, I still think that when he sees most of the class in a stupor he should take cogrnizance of the fact and make an effort to regain the attention.
Here are a few of the numerous criticisms voiced by the student:
teaching in a low, monotonous tone that leaves the effect of counting sheep; constantly performing distracting mannerisms that make one wonder what the teacher is going to do with his hands next instead of listening to the material; never putting stress on the things to be remembered or are at all important; and refusing to look at his audience. At first glance these accusations appear to be very harsh, unfounded remarks. I wish that were true, but the unalterable fact remains that the accusations are undeniably authentic.
Of course, only a small part of the present University staff come under the heading of “sleep inducers;” and those are for the most part relatively new teachers who should be pyen ft chance. However, each and every professor on the campus should make a etermined effort to arrange his ma-erial in the most interesting and in-brmative manner during these hot mmer months (and for that matter 1 the time) in order that the stn-t may not miss a tool of knowl-that will prove useful in later
|o please, professors, take heed of tfcwailing cries that are emanating fw the campus and don’t make us si^r needlessly this summer!
£
Jack Dube and Buc^brey
Warming Over: You new people are about ibc let in on the ground floor just exactly as though you were here all yoifcives and knew us all alon^. There is no extra fee for our service, it comefcee with the Daily Tar Heel (this is as corny as we ever get). Our purpV is to tell you a funny occasionally and we expect the same from youli return. If you have any troubles, mail them to us (nothing'®^ over nine pounds will be accepted).
Also we are a power in politics which fortunately are non-existent this summer. In addition, we are great lovers. At present our love-life is also practically non-existent (please note above portraits and mail your applications to the Editor, he likes to get mail too). As an extra service we tend dogs and babiee. The dogs should be thoroughbreds and the babies should be over eighteen, blonde, and house-broken.
Eyetems: Danziger’s, from whose back room comes many a frozen fruit, caused considerable embarrassment to one Bunny Earl. It seems she got on a bus carrying a large rum-cake to her lovin’ family. The sun beat down and by the end of the trip, co-passengers concluded that little Bunny had just come up from Havana de Cuba via a brewery horse. . . . We asked Jos Landvoigt if she had any hobbies. “Nope,” she replied, “I’m single.” ... We were telling Jane Mears about what a wonderful football tekm we’re going to have in the fall. We pointed out one braising tackle to her and said, “See that guy —^he’s gonna be our best man I” “Oh,” she gasped, “Honey, this is so sudden.” . . .
Cloak and Daggb Dbpt.: If you
want toiaow the age of that cutie you’re d^g at Spencer, just ask us, ;he list. . . .
[HE MOUTHS OF BABES AND We wish to express a eciation to all the Dorm their unfailing efforts le boys acquainted with . . only like Ed John-:member the little man 1 as business.” . . . We ley what was the most ut of his Jeep. “Nine the Post-Office and the reply. . . . Which |ning down from New [reeted at a Toll Bridge it. “Fifty Cents,” he acknowledgfed. . . . now a patron of the him if he picked up T Picassos in Prance, ilied, “They all have !S and Dad’s got a
we’ve se
Out 0
SUCKLIN note of hostesses to get all the gi son says, in love as asked Bill he ever times bet Harry’s, reminds us York we we by the atte said, “Sold,’
Jay Frankli; Arts. We asl any Van Gog “Heck, no,” h right-wheel d Buick anywa Kiss-Off lows, when girl friend, it to b^n, “My gentlemen of
Then there thing who tho^ were sailon wit
Remember, fel-a letter to your Iways a good idea ig, and ladies and iry.”
the sweet young smelling salts. 0.
