EDITORIAL
• Commimity Actimi
• Nnrsery School
•	Test
NEWS
• Peak Enrollaicat
• Grahaat Hoaotcd
• Navy Flislit Pkvgrai
VOLUME LV
-TME ONLY COLLEGE DAILY IN THE SOUTHEAST-
United Press
CHAPEL HILL, N. TUESDAY, JUNE 25, 1946
Editor: F-3146 — BnsiBess: 8641
NUMBE
Naval Reserve Gives Training For Ex-pilots
Carolina Men May Fly At Norfolk Air Base
Former Navy pilots on the campus now have an opportunity to accumulate flying time and be paid for it, under a new plan set up by the Naval Air Station in Norfolk. Captain D. W. Loomis, commandant of the Carolina NROTC unit, issued a call Friday for those interested and eligible to get the initial questionnaire from his oflSce.
The Norfolk NAS expects to have a working organization set up by July 1, with a total of 50 planes of all types from F6F’s to SNJ’s available for brush-up training. Main emphasis is placed on keeping pilots qualified, but there are also provisions for warrants and enlisted men.
No Quota Set
Commander Schnabel, of the NROTC department, stressed particularly that no quota has been set by the Norfolk headquarters for Carolina, or for the other colleges in this area. Those ^-pilots who get their questionnaires in first will have a better chance, although there is a priority system. Under this system, combat veterans receive preference, followed by men with overseas duty, and then American theater veterans.
Ex-flyers who sign up for this program will be placed in the organized reserves, with the announced mission of maintaining flying and combat efficiency. Pilots will be expected to attend 48 drills each year and a two week’s cruise in the summer.
At least three drill periods can be crowded into one week-end, which means that a reservist would have to go to Norfolk every third week-end The summer cmiise is to be taken on a carrier or- at-tho station, depending on the state where training takes place.
Pay Scale Listed
Remuneration will consist of one day’s pay for each drill period completed, which in the course of a school quarter should amount to about $100 for a pilot with the grade of lieutenant.
Men interested in joining the organized reserves are invited to come by the Armory any day.
Those who feel they cannot give enough time are urged to inqure about' joining the volunteer reserves, a stand-by organization similar to previous peace-time reserve outfits.
Y Heads Selected To Attend ^hool
Carlisle Cashion, president of the YWCA cabinet, and Donald Broad, president of the YMCA cabinet, have been selected by the two ‘Y’ organizations to represent the University of North Carolina at the Union Theological Seminary President Training School In New York City beginning July 5, 1946.
Composed of presidents from ‘Y’ organizations throughout the east, the school present* a six weeks course in YMCA and YWCA administration, president training, and work in Christian and social action.
University Press Gains Great Fame
Started in 1923 with Two Volumes, Press Now Numbers Top Books in Selling Lists
By Burke Shipley
Approximately 24 years ago ten faculty members of the University formed an organization “to make more effective the publication of its scientific, historical and literary works by issuing them under the imprint of its own Press,” which became known as the University Press. The Press has grown steadily from its modest effort in 1923 of a total of two books. It has been accorded national prominence, but still at its home the Press is an unknown University function.
Since 1922, the University Press, located, then and now, in Bynum Hall, has achieved prominence for its notable scholarly contributions concerning the South, as well as in many other fields, such as Inter-American affairs, sociolog^y, science and economics.
The primary purpose of the Press —the dissemination of knowledge in a palatable form—^has been upheld by its numerous non-fictional works, with emphasis on those of Southern regional significance. Howard Odum’s “Southern Regions,” is one of the best known in the field of sociology. *
On occasion, a distinguished novel or fictional book is deemed worthy of publication; the first of these was printed in 1940, “I Rode With Stonewall,” by Henry K. Douglas. All toW, more than 500 volumes have appeared under the publishing house known as the University Press.
Wilson Director
Now under the directorship of Thomas J. Wilson, the Press is in the process of expanding the function of its sales and advertising department with George F. Scheer as manager.
Mrs. ^lice T. Paine, as editor-in-chief, supervises the staff with the job of See PRESS, page 4.
SCHW Schedules Officer Election Tomorrow Night
Election of new officers will be the main business of the campus chapter of the Southern Conference for Human Welfare which holds its weekly meeting tomorrow evening at 7 p.m. in the Baby Lounge of Graham Memorial, announced Bob Gurney, chairman.
“In order to continue with our program of political action during the summer, it is essential that we have the full cooperation of both our old members and any new students who are interested in such activity,” Gumey said.
Plans were made at the last meeting for the closer cooperation between the local chapter and the chapter at the North Carolina College for Negroes and a committee was appointed to contact the Negro Community Center in Carrboro. The group is studying plans for the presentation of prominent Negro lecturers and entertainers during the next regular school year.
It was announced that Perrell Payne, vice-chairman will conduct the meeting as Gumey will be in Washington representing the organization at the NCPAC School of Political Action Techniques.
Summer Bridge Tournaments To Get Underway Thursday
By Sally Woodhull
Duplicate bridge tournaments are being held weekly in Graham Memorial Lounge, beginning at 7:30 p. m. Thursday nights, and sjaonsored by the Carolina Bridge Association, under the direction of Charles W. Woodson. Anyone is eligible to play in the tournaments; players are charged 10 cents each, and the proceeds are divided among the winning teams.
National Rating points, authorized by the American Contract Bridge League, are issued to winners of the weekly tonmaments. Lasv week s winners, Charles Woodson and Bob Hurst, each received 10 points, since there were four tables participating. In tournaments with a greater number of tables playing, more points are issued. By accumulating 100 National
Rating Points, a player may receive a rating of Master from the American Contract Bridge League,
Opportunity
“This is an unpaialleled opportunity for Carolina students both to improve their bridge and to become rated bridge players,” said Charles Woodson, director. “If you have never played duplicate bridge before, come at 7:15 t# receive a few instructions. The, tournaments bepn promptly at 7:30 and are usually over by 10:30,” Woodson added.
In addition to the regular Thursday evening tournaments, the Carolina Bridge Association will sponsor a special tournament once a month, which will award one master point to the winners and 75 National Rating Points to the runners-up.
Former Navy Lieutenant T. J. Wils<m, III, University Press director, is head of one of the most im* portant yet least known func< tions on the campus.
Board Accepts $600 Subsidy From Phillips
A summer school subsidy of $600 to be spent on student entertainment has been granted to Graham Memorial Student Union by Guy B. Phillips, director of the summer school, Dean Mackie announced yesterday at a meeting of the Graham Memorial Board of Directors.
The money will be divided evenly for the two summer terms, with $300 dollars a term going towards furnishing the summer students with outside entertainment.
Rice Vacation
Martha Rice, director of Graham Memorial; whose vacation plans were changed by the inability of her planned replacement to work here this summer, said that' she will take a month’s vacation from August 15 to September 15, during which time her place will be taken by Bob Colepaugh, present assistant manager. Colepaugh is from New York City.
The board also disciissed plans for improving the Candlelight room and will strive to furnish added refreshments there in the future. A plan to install a soda fountain in the room was tabled after a lengthy discussion to the high cost and uncertain availability of supplies.
A committee to draw up a budget for next fall was appointed by feting chairman Dr. E. J. Woodhouse. The committee appointed consists of Mr. Kemp S. Cate of the faculty and student members Bob Morrison and Bill Woestendiek.
CPU Will Discuss Plans For Summer
The Carolina Political Union will hold a short business meeting at 7:30 tomorrow evening at Graham Memorial.
The purpose of the meeting is to discuss plans for the activities of the Union during the summer term and to hear a report by chairman Jerry David-oflf on his trip to Washington in search of speakers for the fall and winter terms.
“As there is a strong possibility that the CPU may present at least one major speaker during the summer term, it is imperative that all members now on campus attend this meeting. Any members who have returned from service are automatically readmitted to active membership upon application, and they are cordially invited to attend tomorrow’s meeting.
Captain Cheek Will Address French House
Climaxing this week’s activities at the French House will be a talk by Capt. A. Lawrence Cheek, a former member of the Inter-AUied Rearmament Commission, who will speak Friday at 7 p.m. on his experiences in North Africa and France. Tonight residents of the House will participate 1 in a program of songs and games.
Dr, Lee Wiley of the French Department of the University of North Carolina will speak Wednesday evening, and Thursday night there will be a program on dramatic skits known in French as “scenettes.”
A picnic at Eatswood lake Saturday afternoon was one of the week-end features, and on Sunday afternoon the group attended the exhibition of French paintings in Person hall. Last night French movies were shown.
“The French House welcomes visitors interested in French, and many have attended the recent evening programs,” stated Prof, Hugo Giduz, director of the House,
Di’s To Debate New Measures
Braswell Is Initiated In Formal Ceremony
Tomorrow night the Dialectic Senate will ^iscuss two bills:
Resolved, That the Student Council permit the accused the right of public trial, and
Resolved, That Germany be governed by the institution of sovereign states.
Officers Inaugurated
At the last meeting Robert Morrison was inaugurated president of the Senate' by l>avid Pittman, retiring president. Other officers installed were Eddie Black, president pro tem; Pittman, critic; Dan McFarland, sergeant-aT^ arms; Arthur Budlong, clerk; and Russell Johnson, CRIL representative.
Morris Braswell was conducted into the membership of the Senate in a formal initiation ceremony, and the Di voted to give extensive powers to the See DI, page U-
Directory Publishing Set Aside Till Fall;
Y Keeps Student File
Since the status of most students will be changed after the first six weeks of summer school, the YMCA will not publish a student directory for the symmer term. “The temporary nature of such a publication would not warrant the great expense involved,” stated acting Y secretary. Bill Poteat.
However, any information concerning the address oi students on the campus may be obtained at the YMCA office where a complete and up to date roster will be on file at all times.
Students having a change of address during the summer months are urged to notify the YMCA office.
Summer Enrollmei Sets All-Time Reeor
Majority of 3,717 Students Are Veterans; Coeds Are Outnumbered Four-to-One by Mi
By Jane Hotson
Records released yesterday by the University Central Reo office showed that there are approximately 3,724 students enrolled in the first Summer Session. These figures prove this is the greatest summer school in the history of the Uni sity. It tops the former record set in the early 1929’s when University summer session boasted a total enrolhnent of 2
^persons. Today the number of erans alone is 45 persons higher the previous record.
Of the total enrollment, 2,883 men and 841 are women. The eral College leads the other gr with 1,391 students. Graduate S< is second with 774.
Arts and Science Next Following closely behind is the lege of Arts and Sciences, which 729 students enrolled. Next, wi considerable drop, is the Comn School’s 404 persons. Law Schoi the next highest with 156 stud Pharmacy has 91 persons, P Health 86, Library Science and ( Health respectively have 41.
There are 11 special students now, eight of which are Turkish. University accepted no applic in either Social Work or Med this summer.
Y Court Dan< Set For Fridj
Informality Stress^ Ties and Heels Tal
The second summer Y Court d will be held this Friday evening : 8:30 to 11:30 in front of the Un sity YMCA, under the sponsorshi Graham Memorial.
Director Martha Rice, in cooj tion with the Order of the Grail is sponsoring a dance Saturday n has scheduled the regular week] Court dance for Friday night; j ever, next week the dance will go to Saturday.
Popular dance bands from ovei nation will be featured with reco song and instrumental melodies. University Book Exchange soda f tain will remain open.
Informality Stressed
Miss Rice stressed informality saying, “The Y Court dances ai be absolutely informal. Coats, high heels, and proper introduce are not only unessential but are ‘ta Anyone who comes formal will be sidered out of place.
“The practice of double-brea will be continued as usual. I that more coeds will break during coming dances, for it would i more fun for all.
“I want to stress informality a: rule of the occasion because I be more students will enjoy the da if they are conducted that way.”
DR. FRANK GRAHAM
Frank Graham Named To Red Cross Group
President Frank Graham has recently been nominated to the American Red Cross Central Committee, according to a telegram received by the Tar Heel from the Red Cross Director of Public Information.
The nominating committee submitted Dr. Graham’s name to the closing session of the convention which was held in Philadelphia last week.
The central commirtee, which is the governing body of the Red Cross, will hold their annual election at the meeting of chapter delegates next December,
Library Shows Chinese Art
Among the many exhibitions in the lobby of th^ University Library are two large Chinese portraits of “The Sun and Daughter of Heaven” which hang on either side of the stairs.
In the main lobby is a collection of various atristic objects. There are many tiny ivory figures including several Buddhas, a beautiful wrought Persian manuscript, and other far-eastern works of art.
In the east wing are collections of original old printings of the “Tatler” by Richard Steele, the “Spectator” by Joseph Addison and thie “Guardian” by Alexander Pope. These collections are loaned to the University Library by Richmond P. Bond.
Paul Green Begins * Lost Colony * Productic After Year*s Scenario Work At MGM Studii
By Arnold Schnlman Paul Green, professor of Dramatic Arts at the University and Pulitzer Prize winner for his play “In Abraham’s Bosom”, arrived at his home in Chapel Hill recently after working as scenarist for M-G-M in Hollywood for over a year.
He is now at Roanoke Island to hdp start the summer production of his nationally famous drama “The Lost Colony”, which will open one wedc from today. This colorful pageant about the mysterious disappearence of the first white settlers on the North Carolina coast has been widely acclaimed by leading dramatic critics and has attracted people from esrery part of the country to the Manteo island outdoor theatre.
JamMtown Fafeaat Another reason tor his return from Hollywood, it is reported is to confer with prominent Virginians identified with historical societies about a pageant at Jamestown in commemoration j
of the settlement there in 1607.
The drama, suggested several years ago by the people of Williamsburg, had
PAUL GREEN
been shelved until the end of the but is now being revived and is a in the early stages, of discussion.
One of the chiefj>roblems in coi tion with the Jamestown pageai thejlocation of a site for the the Mr. Green has stated that it ma necessary to fly over the area : Jamestown to the mainland of th< ninsula in order to find the mos sirable spot for the proposed half lion dollar project
Grera’s Last Play
The last play Mr. Green wro1 Chapel Hill was “Johnny Johx which has been included in severa thologies of AmeriedCh literature, after that ha dramatized Ric Wright’s best selling novel “N Son” for production on Broadws Orson Welles.
His most recent movie scenarii “Red Shoes Run Faister,” and, hi disclosed that his ne^ will be “S tures of Time.**
