SATURDAY, JUNE 22,1946
THE OAILT TAB miiRl,
PAGETHBE
Filling In
Eddie Allen Doing Sports For Observer
By Fred Flagler
Word comes to this desk that Eddie Allen, erstwhile Tar Heel reporter and associate editor, has assumed the position of sports columnist on the sports desk of the Charlotte Observer. He is replacing Jake Wade who resigrned last week.
It will be <mly a temporary job for Allen who will probably return to Car<rfina next fall to farther his education. The youthful Charlotte writer has an unusual ability for writiufT sports. He worked for the Charlotte Obeeryer during high school and vacations and with the tutoring of the master, Mr. Wade, has developed into a promising columnist and reporter for athletic events.
Allen entered Carolina last fall, and immediately made his way to the second floor of Graham Memorial to report for duty with the Daily Tar Heel. Allen's talents were quickly recognized, and he advanced to an associate editor’s position in short order.
He tried his hand at page two of the Daily Tar Heel, but soon found that his love for sports was wailing for his return. During the spring Allen went back to sports writing, taking up the job of sports publicist for the University News Bureau. Allen’s analysis of the fight is that Conn is just another dancing master who could do no more than dance. He suggested that Louis toyed with the Pittsburgh challenger as did Dempsey in a fight with George Carpentier, a fight that should never have been, back in 1921.
While on fight talk some mention of the fraud charges in connection with the Louis-Conn fight by a New York congressman should be made. Rep. Donald L. O’Toole, Brooklyn, said, “the whole fight setup in New York is as false as Jacob’s store teeth. Uncle Mike shrugged the charges made by O’Toole off, and retaliated with “Before the fight O’Toole’s office called for free tickets, and I turned them down. So now he’s hollering.”
One man can't do much to hurt Uncle Mike who knows the fight promotion business up one side and down the other, but if too many John Q. Publics get to hollering, his hold on top fights might easily be loosened.
The way we see it, the publjc wanted to see Conn in another try against Louis. Uncle Mike gave them what
Gary
Cooper
Basil
Rathbone
in
“The Adventures of Marco Polo”
Also LATEST NEWS TODAY
ilh
SUNDAY-MONDAY
SHE HAD ALE tONDOlT ON A
v>¥<*rry-GO-ROUND!
Mm die fim of die funl0g
die rsviihiog redhead who w*» pefpetoM emotioQ to Londoo's blue bloods..wbo fon 'froin die tltiiiM tobeooiMEaClaiid't.mN^ talked'about DucbcM.'
No. Two Grads Upset No. One Outfit In Tilt
Softball Contests Open Summer Murals
The number two Grad softball team led the scoring parade in the summer intramural schedule opener Thursday, by smashing out a 10-0 upset victory over the Grad number one team.
In other games played Thursday, Phi Eaps edged out Aycock 8-5; Old East trounced the DKE’s 11-1; Lewis beat the Betas 15-12; and Old Stacy trimmed the Phi Gams 23-13, on the four o’clock schedule.
On the five o’clock schedule, the Pharoahs whipped the Zetes 14-2; the Sigma Chi’s beat Whitehead 15-2 behind the two-hit pitching of Dotson Palmer; Graham outpointed the Pi Lambda Phi’s 18-11; and the Chi Phi-Chi Psi combination beat St. Anthony 11-4.
Thursday’s games led off a full summer season of intramural sports planned by the intramural office. The pairings on the tennis and handball tourneys are being made up and competition in these sports is expected to get under way next week.
Mural Schedule
Softball
Monday, 4:00—Field No. 1: Lewis vs. Pharoahs; Field No. 2: ATO vs. Phi Gam; Field No. 3: SAE vs. Old West; Field No. 4: Betas vs. Zeta Psi; Field No. 7: Whitehead vs. Sigma Nu; Field No. 8; KA vs. TEP.
5:00—Field No. 1: Phi Delt vs. Counsellors; Field No. 2: Kappa Sig vs, Mangum; Field No. 3: Chi Phi vs. Ruffin; Field No. 4: Old East vs. BVP; Field No. 7: Grad No. 2 vs. Grad No. 3; Field No. 8: Alexander vs. Old Stacy.
Tuesday, 4:00—Field No. 1: Sigma Chi vs. Sigma Nu; Field No. 2: Mangum vs. Graham; Field No. 3: St. Anthony vs. Ruffin; Field No. 4: Aycock vs. Counsellors; Field No. 7: DKE vs. BVP; Field No. 8; Zeta Psi vs. Lewis.
5:00—Field No. 1: PiuT)elt vs. Phi Kap; Field No. 2: Kappa Sig vs. Pi Lamb; Field No. 3: Old Stacy vs. ATO; Field No. 4: Phi Gam vs. SAE; Field No. 7: Trailer Camp vs. Old West; Field No. 8: Grad No. 3 vs. Staff.
they wanted. Most authorities were pretty sure that Louis would take him. Predictions had Conn going out in or before the fourth round, but the fans had to have another match. They got it.
Page Hits Peak of Career;
Eyes Nathiml Golf Toumew National Meet Today
By Jim Klutts
Playing the best golf of her career, Mrs. Estelle Lawson Page, of Chapel Hill, has her eyes on the National Champi(mship, which she captured in 1937, and which has eluded her ever since.
This year’s National event, the first scheduled since 1941, will be held at the’ Southern Hills Country Club at Tulsa, Okla., September 23-28, with a large field of stars scheduled to par-^ ticipate.
This will be nothing new to Mrs.
Page, though, for she entered her first National tournament in 1934, and she has been a big threat in every meet held since then. In 1935 and 1936 she walked off with medalist honors in the tournament, but it was not until 1937 that she fought her way through a brilliant field to take the title, defeating Patty Berg in the finals.
The following year Mrs. Page once again found herself confronted by the young red-head in the finals, and this time Miss Berg turned the tables on the Chapel Hillian. Miss Berg repeated again in 1939, but in 1940 Betty Jamison, of Texas, captured the crown, but not after she had nosed out Mrs. Page in a terrific semi-finals duel.
In 1941, the last year the tournament was held, Mrs. Page reached the semi-finals where she tangled with Betty Hicks Newell, one of the veterans of the game, with Mrs. Newell finally winning the overtime match on the 19th hole.
In the last half dozen meets Mrs.
Page has been the one to beat, and the same holds true for the September tussle. If she doesn’t win this time, the one who does will have to beat Mrs. Page.
Mrs. Page first took up golf in 1931, and this provides an interesting story.
At that time the Chapel Hill Country Club was sadly in debt, and something had to be done about it. So the directors of the club placed Mrs. Page’s father, Dr. R. B. Lawson, Professor of Gymnastics at the University, in charge of the course.
Dr. Lawson, who felt a trifle rusty at the sport at that time, decided that he first must become a good golfer if he was to manage the course successfully, so he set about to read all the golf books he could, and to practice diligently. But he became tired of practicing alone, and so convinced his daughter that she should take up golf.
At that time she didn’t know a five-iron from a cue stick, but she caught on quickly, and within three months time she was on her way to Norfolk,
Va. to take part in her first tournament. And she’s been going to town with niblick and putter ever since.
Of all the tournaments she has won, probably her greatest performance came in the recent Carolinas’ Womens tourney at the Sedgefield Country
THE WORLD'S MOST HONORED WATCH
WINNER OF 10 World’s Fair Grand Prizes, 28 Gold Medals and more honors for accuracy than any other timepiece.
BRINGS
COOL
WEEKEND
SPECIAL
Peppermint
HOT WEATHER
You’ll Favor Our Other Flavors Too!
CHOCOLATE	VANILLA
STRAWBERRY BUTTER-SCOTCH CHERERY BANANA	TUTTI-FRUTTI
• All available in convenient “carry-home” packages: pints; quarts; V2-gallon sizes.
REFRESHING COLD MILK DRINKS
—and—
HEALTHFUL
^UNE IS DAIRY PRODUCTS MONTH
Weekday Hours: 8:00 A. M. to 10:00 P. M. Sunday Hours: 12M. to 10:00 P. M.
The Farmers’ Dairy Cooperative
MM BAR AND REl'AIL STORE
431 W. Franklin St.	Dial	F-3361	or	F-3371
Club in Greensboro. After taking medalist honors with a 73, she won four consecutive matches without losing a single hole. This, as far as golf experts have been able to ascertain, is the first* time that a player has gone through a major tournament without losing a single hole. To climax it, Mrs. Page won her 36-hole semi-finals match by a 14 and 13 margin, one of the most decisive tournament victories on record.
Mrs. Page learned much of her golf on the little nine-hole Chapel Hill course, which is built perfectly for her spectacular short game. She is unbeatable in this department, and it is in her deadly accuracy on chip shots that she has won many of her matches.
Old man par takes a terrific beating every day now at the Country Club as Mrs. Page practices hard for the coming tournaments. She may not win the National Tournament this time, but if she doesn’t, she’s going to give somebody some awfully tough moments.
Athletic Council Awards Letters For Spring Sports
A large number of monogram awards for outstanding records in spring sports have just been made by the Athletic Council of the University of North Carolina on recommendation of coaches in the respective sports.
The complete list, announced today by Athletic Director R. A. Fetzer, follows:
Varsity track: L. R. Briley, Greenville; Mark Burnham, Shelburne, Mass.; C. L. Donnell, Americus, Ga.; W. I. Francis, Hopedale, Mass.; H. I. Gifford, Globe, Ariz.; T. E. Haigler, Sanford; T. E. Hazelwood, Frankfort, Ind.; H. D. Heggie, East Flat Rock; W. J. Hester, Raleigh; H. C. Hickman, Sanford; L. J. Klosterman, Long, Md.; Norman McLeod, Sanford; V. R. Rieser, Columbus, 0.; Floyd Simmons, Charlotte; J. L. Strait, Angela, Ind.; J. H. Tandy, Westfield, N. J.; R. F. Taylor, Raleigh; M. C. Terrell, Raleigh; C. H. Tietjen, Freeport, N. Y.; T. J. Turner, Laurinburg; W. L. Ward, New Orleans; Paul E. Green, Roanoke Rapids; manager, outdoor track, and George D. Clanton, Christmas, Fla., manager, cross country and indoor track.
Varsity baseball: Harry L. Beason, Winston-Salem; Tom H. Clasrton, Rox-boro; Charles P. Cole, Carthage; Hamp Coleman, Red Springs; John T. Colones, Selma; Vincent J. DiLorenzo, Bergenfield, N- J.; Ronald Frazier, Winston-Salem; John T. Gregory, Halifax; Ernest D. Hackney, Wilson; James M. Hajrworth, High Point; John B. Hearn, Wilson; John M. Mc-Elrath, Winston-Salem; Fred R. Ryan, Trenton, N. J.; George L. Thompson, Raleigh; James B. Webb, Morehead City; Francis M. White-heart, Winston-Salem, and Benjamin D. Frazier, West Palm Beach, Fla., manager.
Varsity tennis: Edgar S. Dameron,
Miler Burnham Compete
Carolina Stables
Temporarily Located End of Hillsboro St.
• Horseback Riding • Hayrides
• Buggy Riding By Appointment:
• Riding Instructions • Night Riding
Hours:
Mondays through Fridays 3 to 7 P. M. Saturdays & Sundays 9 A. M. to 7*P. M.
CAROLINA
STABLES
Runner Represents Carolina in NCAA Championships Held in Minneapolis
By Jim PhaiT
Miler Mark Burnham will run against the best distance mei the country today, representing Carolina in the National Cc giate Athletic Association Track and Field Championships held the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis.
Bnmluun, of Sh^nme, Mms.» < piled 38^ points iix meets during past season, to take second plao individual scoring. He led off the > son by copping first place in the ' ginia meet with a time of 4:33.8 In the Duke meet, Burnham ron ahead of a strong field to finish j in 4:32.5. He continued his wim ways in the meet with Georgria 1 by taking another first place 4:32.5.
Miler Mark Burnham, who will represent Carolina in the NCAA meet in Minneapolis today.
Burlington; C. Sam Daniels, Coral Gables, Fla.; Stanley M. Gruner, West Palm Beach, Fla.; Melvin Jordan, Jr., Chapel Hill; Harold G. Maass, Palm Beach, Fla.; James M. Nicholson, Atlanta, Ga.; Donald E. Skakle, Waltham, Mass.; Richard H. Swigart, Lewistown, Pa.; Cleo D. Wilder, Jr., Paris, Tenn., and Donald W. Paley, New York City, manager.
Varsity golf: E. C. Ashby, Mount Airy; E. H. Bailey, Memphis, Tenn.; J. A. Keiger, Asheville; W. G. Liles, Farmville; and D. F. Nyimicz, Rahway, N. J.
The Athletic Council approved awards for the following members of the junior varsity baseball team. These do not carry the monogfram privilege:
W. J., Boseman, Weldon; W. G. Braxton, Godwin; A. C. Chappell, Beaufort; Marvin E. Cheek, Chapel Hill; L. C. Couch, Elkin; H. E. Cromer, Newberry, S. C.; Ott L. Evans, Columbus, Ga.; J. H. Fenner, Rocky Mount; N. R. Galinkin, Toms River, N. J.; L. S. Gliarmis, Wilson; J. B. Hauser, Winston-Salem; B. S. Hayes, Rocky Mount; D. W. Lewis, Winston-Salem; G. R. Nassif, Laurinburg; J. N. Robertson, Burlington; E. B. Stevenson, Winston-Salem; 0. P. Walker, Rocky Mount; W. H. Webster, Wal-kertown; H. E. Varney, Powell, Pa.; and W. D. Buff aloe, Jackson, manager.
New Song Hit
“iShe Lost Her Girdle,” or “June Is Busting Out All Over.”
WHEEL-A-WAY
to
FVN AND HEALTH
Now open to serve you. Repair work our specialty.
Bicycles For Rent By Hour, Day, or Week Special Rates to Parties
New bicycles now in stock as low as $39.05.
Carolina Cycle Co.
120 W. Rosemary St. .Below Bus Statioii
Veteran Owned and Operated
Carolina’s Chunk Simmons qni fied yesterday in the 220 low hnn preliminary heats in the NC/ ineet in Minneapolis, along wj seven other contestants. Simmo will enter the low hurdle finals t day for the low hurdle champic ship.
At Annapolis, Burnham came second behind Smusyn of the Midd Bouncing back &om this setback, ex-Dartmouth runner flashed ahi of a fast field to cop the South Conference mile championship in time of 4:26.7. Downes, of Duke, i Burnham’s closest competitor in conference event.
Burnham took third place in IC4A meet at Annapolis behind Wa of Manhattan and Conner of W Point. He gave the Cadet Connei strong race for second place befi being edged out in the stretch dri A former V-12 and V-5 naval trail who did some running at Dartmoi before being transferred to Caroli Burnham was one of the most c< sistent men on the track squad d. ing the spring season.
Swimming Class
A beginner's swimming class i women will be held in the indoor pi of Woollen Gymnasium during t summer session every Monday, W< nesday, and Friday afternoons frc four o’clock till five, with Miss Ma Frances Kellum as instructor.
“Stand back of your lover, fal woman,” shouted the Scotchman as discovered his wife in the arms another man. “I’m going to she both of you.”
—^The Virginia Te< ? * •
A wedding limousine rolled Fifth Avenue a few weeks ago wi a large placard tied to the bumper, read, “Careless talk caused this!”
—Hornet.
Sales and Repairs
on
WATCHES
and
JEWELRY
GODWIN
Jewelry Company
Beneath Sutton’s Drug Store
CLASSIFIED
Ajdvertisementt nraat be paid for la adTai «nd tamed in »t the Dailt Tab Hsk. boiiiii office, Graham Memorial, by 8 o’clock the i preceding publication. Dial SUMl. Fiftr ea each indi and fraction. The DAiLT TAB Hi will be responeible only for the lint ineoRi insertion and then only to the ertenfc of make-ffood insertion—to be nm oaiy in a of an error which lesaens the Taloe of tte i vertisement. .
LOST
Strayed from 516 E. Franklin, We nesday, about 6 p. m., a faun-C( ored Chihuahua dog with black fac 1 year old. $10 reward, alive. Ci Miss Nellie Roberson, 474 (R-8953)
Pair silver pilot’s wings about 1' inches long. REWARD offered f< return to Mrs. H. D. Templeto 105 Carr Dorm, dial 3001. (R-895^
TEACHER WANTED
English-French teacher, 7th grac teacher, and coach wanted for 71i School, Fayetteville, N. C. $6( supplement for coach. Contact N< 10 Old West, Lloyd E. Aomai (R-8942)
WANTED TO BUY
A ’37 to '41 Ford or Chevn^ j good condition. Will pay edli^ price. Dwight Peodergnft, Ifl PhiUips HalL (R-8962)
