PAGE FOUB
IHE DAILY TAB HEEZ.
SATURDAY, JUNE 22, 1946
C071 Tie
94fi-
I
: f
i
%:N
-4
New Attendance Record Set As English Institute Opens
With the largest attendance in its history, the annual North Carolina English Institute organized for three weeks of professional study and leadership training in an informal planning session held here early this week.
Chancellor R. B. House, in extending the University’s greeting, stressed the paramount importance of reading, writing, and speaking in the complex life of the present^ day.
Organization of the Institute group as a self-administered council was effected with the election of the following officers: Richard G. Walser, president; Miss Ida Gardner, vice-president; Miss Maude Ratledge, secretary and public relations chairman. Mr. Walser, in opening the meeting, sketched the background of the Institute.
Voluntary study committees held adjourned meetings to plan their programs. Chairmen of the committees, all of which have scheduled one or more additional meetings this week, are as follows: composition, Mrs. Margaret Ertel; speech. Miss Ida Gardner; reading, Miss Helen Ratchford; creative writing. Miss Louise C. Smith; audio-visual, John Littleton.
Advisers meeting with the various committee groups included Dr. Hardin Craig, Dr. V. M. Mulholland, Miss Dora Jacobi, Miss Atwood Hudson; Miss Pauline Winkler, and Miss Elinor Preston.
Work accomplished by the Institute committees will be incorporated in the published reports of the standing committees of the North Carolina English Teachers, which will meet in Chapel Hill during the closing days of the Institute session, July 1-3.
Attending the opening meeting this week were several officers of the North Carolina English Teachers, including Miss Lillian Parks, immediate past president; Miss Celeste Penny, vice-president and chairman of the control committee, and Miss Mary Elizabeth Suitt, secretary.
DAnCE
(Continued from page 1) union directors, Fish Worley, and Bill Cochran, several square dances and^ affairs similar to former hops such as the “Barefoot Brawl,” “Saddle Shoe Stomp,” “Toenail Tickle,” are scheduled.
A large number of students attended the Graham Memorial open house “Get-Together Gambol” in the Candlelight Room on the ground floor of the student union last night. Roy Cole’s five-piece “jazz combo” the nucl|eus of his popular 13-piece campus orchestra, played for the affair.
The Candlelight room will be open every night during the summer session for dancing.
FLY!!
Twenly-one passenger Douglas Luxury Liner FUghts
Full Airliner Equipment Stewardess $50,000 Insurance per Passenger
NORTHBOUND to New York on odd-date afternoons. SOUTHBOUND to Sea Island, Ga., and Florida on even-date afternoons.
Flagstop win be made at Horace WiOiams Airport on tlie abaye aftemocms.
For information or reserva-tions, call or phone
Resort Airlines
Soathan Pines 5482
Porm Council Meets June 27
Group Will Elect Council Officers
The new Men’s Interdormitory Council, as provided in the recently adopted Constitution of the student body, will be called into session by Dr. E. L. Mackie, dean of students, in the Di Hall Thursday afternoon at 2:30.
The Council will be composed of the following dormitory counselors: Oliver J. Beaman, Old East; Donald Witter, Old West; Robert Morrison, Battle-Vance-Pettigrew; Walton P. Burk-heimer, Steele; Herman L. Baker, Aycock; Raymond Jefferies, Everett; Jerry Davidoff, Lewis; Louis Mitchell, Graham; Richard W. Eichelberger, Grimes; and Ben Robinson, Ruffin.
Acordjng to the cionstitution, the Men’s Interdormitory Council will be composed of the counselors and dormitory presidents. Although all dormitories have not yet elected presidents, it is expected that all elections will be held by Thursday.
Jimmy Wallace, former president of the Council, will be in Europe this summer, and a new president will be elected. Other officers will also be elected at the meeting next Thursday.
French Collection Now On Exhibition In Person Gallery
An exhibition comprising thirty color reproductions of French paintings, from the 15th through the 19th century, is now on display in tlie small gallery of Person Hall, and will remain through June 30th.
Some of the better known works in this colection are: “The Gleaners,” by Miller; “Prima Ballerina,” by Degas; “Fifer Boy,” by Monet and “Still Life,” by Cezanne. Others among the well-known painters whose works are represented are Van Gogh, Daumier, Renior, Corot and Courbet. This collection of reproductions should be of interest to all students and especially to art students.
Simultaneously, an exhibit of ancient Peruvian textiles will be shown. These remarkably well preserv-i ed articles, which are said to be “the finest in the world,” cover the period from 300 A. D. up to the early 16th century.
Visiting hours for the two exhibits are 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on week days, and 2 to 5 on Sunday.
What did one acorn say to the othtr acorn? “I’m nuts about you even if you are half cracked.”
Uniyersity
Service
Station
Odis
Pendergraft
Prof.
TOPS IN GOOD FOOD
—OUR CONSTANT AIM—
That Is Why Our Customers Always Return for More and More.
KANSAS CITY STEAKS
On these hot days, drop in and refresh yourself with a tall glass of cool fruit juice or iced tea. Prompt, courteous service
—at——
THE UNIVERSITY RESTAURANT
Coed Officers, Picked Monday
To Perform Duties • Of Honor Council
Presidents of sorority houses and coed dorms who were elected Monday night will serve as an Honor Council for the summer terms and at the same time perform the functions of the Women’s Interdormitory Council. Liz Barnes was appointed to the presidency of the group by the Interdormitory Council last quarter.
The girls elected were Alice Stokes, Archer House; Louise Kaufmann', Smith; Jerry Hobbs, Mclver; Adelaide McLarty, Spencer; Carolyn Rich, Alderman; Betty Jo Blanton, Carr; Mrs. Ruby S. James, Kenan; Dottie Pless, Alpha Gamma Delta; Nooky McGee, Tri Delt; Mona Bensel, Chi Omega; Ann E. Mott, Pi Beta Phi.
One girl will be elected from the sorority house presidents to serve on the Honor Council with the dorm presidents.
Coeds Sign Codes
On Wednesday and Thursday nights meetings were held in the dorms and sorority houses to have all new students sign the honor and campus codes.
Social chariman have been elected summer will be left to the individual’ in the dorms Social activities for the dorms.
‘Our Town’ Slated For Production By Drama Group
Thornton Wilder’s “Our Town” will be presented by the Carolina Play-makers July 8 under the direction of John Parker, business manager of the group. Mr. Parker directed the first non-professional production of that show ever given in 1939.
Harry Davis, technical director, will play the part of the stage manager, the same role he had in the 1939 production.
Tryouts were held Friday in Memorial Hall, but there are still openings for boys in the age group 9-15 and girls in their teens. The cast needs the services of persons skilled in costuming and makeup. Anyone interested should call the dramatic arts department in Murphy Hall.
Nightly Dances Slated By Murals Department In Woollen Gymnasium
Sponsored by the intramural department a dancing class will be conducted on Monday and Wednesday evenings and informal dancing will be held Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday nights from 7:30 to 9 o’clock in the East plaza of Woollen Gym.
The dancing instruction will be under the direction of Miss Ruth Leonard and Miss Knox.
Johnny Jon^ and Miss Fuller will guide the dances with music furnished by recordings.
Durham-Rives Runoff Scheduled for Today
Balloting in the second primary election between Carl Durham of Chapel Hill and Judge E. Earl Rives of Greensboro for representative of the Sixth District of North Carolina in Congress is scheduled for today.
Chapel Hill polls will be open from 6:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. The north precinct is loctated in the fire engine room in Town Hall, and the south precinct in the elementary school.
Due to the fact that Durham failed to achieve a majority in the initial primary, in the runoff was called.
Students who have moved from Nash and Miller halls to other buildings on the campus should check at the General Delivery office for mail, according to Chapel Hill Postmaster W. S. Hogan.	P	^ m
. . . for
Dress and Sport Also lovely matching handbags.
Marilyn Slipper Shop
Durham
Campus
Calendar
—Short Notices for Busy Readers—
Yack Distribution Last Time Wednesday
The new 1946 Yackety Yack wil be distributed for the last time on Wed-esday afternoon, June 26.
They can be obtained in the basement of Graham Memorial during the hours of three until 5 p. m.
_______>	<r
Student Party Meets Next Tuesday Night.
The Student Party will meet next Tuesday night at 7:30 o’clock in the Phi Hall on the fourth floor of New East. All students are cordially invited to attend.
“This is in keeping with the Stu^ dent Party’s policy of inviting every student to its meetings and maintaining an active program' all year around,,” stated Party chairman Jim Taylor. Any desired legislation or reforms in bills previously passed by the Legislature may be suggested to either Joe Byrd in 1 Old East, or Jack Boor-aem in Ruffin Dorm at any time.
Two Saturday Classes Remain During Quarter
According to Dr. Guy B. Phillips, summer school director, Saturday classes will be held next Saturday, June 29 and July 13. All other Saturdays will be free.
Dr. Phillips stated that students must adhere strictly to the schedule in order to enable the last summer session to end before the first of September.
Old West Dormitory Elects New Officers
At a recent meeting of Old West Dormitotry the following officers were elected: Bill Lamkin, president; Mike Loftus, vice-president; Charlie Knox, secretary-treasurer Tommy Pearson, athletic manager; and Rone Lowe, H. R. Gray, Charlie Kistler, counselors.
COLLECTION ASSISTANTS
All students interested in forming a committee to help in the. nation-wide Emeri^ency Fund Collection for overseas food relief can do so by leaving their name with acting YMCA secretary William H. Poteat today or Monday. Mr. Po-teat is the chairman ot the student division of the local drive.
OVERSEAS
(Continued from first page)
Mrs. Russell M. Grumman, is serving as co-chairman of the division workers, presided over last night’s final organization meeting, held in the Baptist Church. She outlined the purpose of the appeal and gave instructions to workers.
Jim Phipps, who is serving with Rev. Kelley Barnett as co-chairman of the appeal, and Mayor R. W. Madry, who appointed the division chairmen, made short talks.
Mr. Phipps emphasized the point that not one penny of the money contributed will be used to conduct the campaign and that none of it will be used to purchase food for enemy occupied countries, which are being taken care of by UNRRA.
Mayor Madry stressed the view that “Americans can supply all the food desperately needed for overseas relief and still have enough for themselves; that Jesus Christ made each of us his brother’s keeper and that millions of our brothers are literally starving; and that, since we are engaged in a contest with Russia to see that the principles of democracy survive, we must bear in mind that such principles do not interest starving men ^nd women—^we must therefore help now those countries that in time would become our friends and customers. From a religious, alutruistic or practical standpoint, therefore, we should respond generously.”
The appeal is being headed up by the following division chairmen: Mrs. J. Edison Adams, Mrs. Ed Cameron, Mrs. W. A. McKnight, Mrs. S. T. Emory, Mrs. John B. Woosley, Mrs. D. D. Carroll, Mrs. Nestore DiCos-tanzo, Mrs. J. B. Linker, Mrs. W. T. Mattox, Mrs. Alexander Coxe, Mrs. Kenneth Ness, Mrs. Jim Phipps, and V. A. Hill.
REEDER’S
CHAPia. HILL FLOWER SHOP
Opposite Post Office Corner
Boy Cole Band Will Play For Grail Dance Saturday
With music furnished by Roy Cole and his 13 piece orchestra. The Order of the Grail will sponsor the first dance of the summer quarter next Saturday evening, June 29, from nine o’clock until midnight in Woollen Gymnasium, Charlie Fulton, Delegata of the Grail, stated yesterday.
One of the aims of the dance is to enable new students to become acquainted, Fulton said.
'Tickets on Sale Tickets may b6 purchased from any member of the Grail, or from the sec-
retary of the Y.M.C.A. The price of admission is $1.00.
All profits realized from the dance will be used exclusively for the Grail fund for the purpose of granting scholorships to worthy students. The establishing and disbursing of this fund has been one of the main functions of the Grail.
Active members of the Order of the Grail are: Charlie Fulton, Delegata; Dewey Dorsett, Pat Kelly, Charles Warren, Ray Jeffries, Whit Osgood, Cal Warren, and Jennings Tripp.
OLD WELL
(Continued from page 1) tinuous line before the well, and never before or since in the well’s history has it come so dangerously close to being drunk dry.
When Edwin A. Alderman became president of the University in 1896 he decided that since the well had served for 132 years it should be beautified. There was a considerable amount of opposition to this idea, but nevertheless he succeeded in having the structure built.
Well a “Gewgaw**
A letter written by Dr. Alderman in 1923 somewhat explains his methods. “A very distingruished professor,” Alderman wrote, “intimated broadly to me that I was foolish to spend money (about $200) for such luxurious gewgaws when so many vital things cried for improvement. I recall intimating to my collegue that he would do well to attend to his own damn business.”
The well as it stands now is copied in the main fibm France’s famous Temple of Love, but as Alderman describes, “Our little well is a sort of sixth cousin of a Greek shrine, or a third cousin of the Temple of Vester or a second cousin of the Temple of Versailles.”
Waterworks Come to Town In 1902 the water works and sewage system was completed and the well as a source of water supply became obsolete, but its life continued as the social center of the campus.
It served as a billboard, a meeting place and in former days large audiences gathered before it in amphitheatre fashion for commencement programs. It has become a symbol constantly associated with the University in magazines and in memories.
In the words of Dr. Alderman, “The wiiole well incident, the building of the little temple, was a pitful, yet beautiful, illustration of the way democracy cries out for beauty to give it backbone — spiritual backbone — that that will make it so strong that it can defy self-gratification, mobs, and red terrors.”
LEGISLATURE
(Continued from first page)
A resolution to pay tribute to Douglass Hunt for his leadership in 1945-46 was passed, entitling him to the highest honorary key given for such work.
Sara Tillet introduced a bill providing that coeds be given one o’clock permission on Friday and Saturday nights during the summer.
IRC To Convene Monday Evening
The International Rela)tions Club will hold its first meeting of the summer session Monday Night in the Roland Parker Lounge of the Graham Memorial at 7:30 p.m. All present and former members are urged to attend and visitors will be welcome.
Important summer plans will be taken up. Topic for discussion will be “The Vatican and Post-War Europe.”
All former members may be admitted without formality and application blanks for anyone wishing to join can be obtained at any meeting.
SPEARMAN
(Continued from page 1) port for international control of atomic energy, formation of a United Nations Veterans League, unification of the armed forces, creation of river valley authorities modeled after TVA, a gu£.ranteed wage of 75 cents, unemployment insurance pajonents to workers on strike, government control of industries where “enforcement of anti-trust laws does not force competition,” restoration of food rationing in the United States to insure that it meet its quota for UNRRA, and a strong policy of price and rent control.
The convention opposed an American alliance or bloc against the United Kingdom,or Russia and was against the veteran’s bonus. It recommended the continuance of OPA.
The local chapter meets every Tuesday night at 7:30 in the Presbyterian Church. All veterans are invited to attend. Mr. Winston Broadfoot is the present chairman of the committee.
JERRY the Tailor
OVER N. C. CAFETERU
Sales and Repairs
PHILCO
RADIOS
Ogbum Furniture Co.
312-314 W. Franklin PHONE 5841
YOU ARE ALWAYS WELCOME
“~at—
WALGREEN’S
DURHAM, N. a
Jewelry — Watches — Diamonds
A COMPLETE LINE
GODWIN JEWELRY COMPANY
Beneath Sutton’s Drug Store, Chapel Hill, N. C. EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING Two Watchmakers to Serve You
Engraving... Stone Setting... Rings Sized
BE COMFORTABLE
RIDE IN A
CAROLINA CAB
DIAL
DIAL