T
m
PAGE FOUB
THE DAILY TAB HEEI.
SATURDAY, JUNE 15, 1946
ot
i
in
y /r^
C' i> v{S
f %	^5.
< ' N , ,
^';^i
vjxt^
Degrees Given 650 At Commencement
AWARDS
*¦ (Continued from page 1)
The John Johnston Parker , Jr., Medal of gold was won by Douglass Hunt, of Rocky Mount, for unique leadership in student govtmment. Hunt was recognized for perpetuating the spirit of honor in the process of student self-government during his term as speaker of the Student Legislature. Charles Vance, student body president, of Winston-Salem, received honorable mention.
Mary E. Norton, Brunswick, Ga., was awarded the Chi Omega prize of $25 by the Department of Sociology for the best theme submitted during a contest held in February.
Cited for his contribution to team morale in basketball, Robert James Paxton, Spokane, Wash., received the Foy Roberson, Jr., Medal.
Betty Carolyn Hanna, Hickory, received the Buxton Williams Hunter Medal in Phannacy for her outstanding qualities of leadership and schol-ai'ship, and work in the student branch of the North Carolina Pharmaceutical Association.
The Lehn and Fink Gold Medal in Pharmacy went to Fate Mitchell Burnette, Black Mountain.
Mallard Gets SAR Award Joseph F. Mallard, Jr., Jersey City, N. J., was presented the Moses Bishop Sons of the American Revolution Medal for being “the best all-round soldier” by the University chapter of the SAR.
The Roland Holt award in playwrit-ing was awarded Charles Sinclair Waldman, Far Rockaway, N. Y., for his work in dramatic arts.
Ruth Duncan, St. Petersburg, Fla., president of the Woman’s Government Association, received the Valkyrie Cup for service to the student government, presented by the Valkyries, women’s honorary society.
Pre-Fabricatei Houses For Veterans Arrive
Two houses formerly used to house personnel of the armed forces arrived j here in sections yesterday and are now being converted into apartments for married veterans.
These apartments were released by , the government from the army base I at Laurinburg and the navy base at i Wilmington. The first of these houses i is expected to contain eight apart-I ments thougli many of the smaller j houses will have only four. A total of approximately 378 apartments will be available when construction is complete. Only 178 of these have been formally signed for by the authorities, but approval has already been given for the remainder and the contracts are now being drawn up.
The residents of Whitehall, Alexander, and Abernathy Halls will move into the houses as soon as construction has been completed. Then these dorms will be turned over to the University to house men students, according to South Building officials.
ENGLISH
director of the University Band, which gave several concerts during the three-day program; Paul Young, director of the Chapel Hill Choral Club, composed of students, faculty and townspeople, which gave concert in. Hill Hall Sunday night at 8:30 o’clock, and Jim Booth, president of the graduating
(Continued on last page) paration for the more intensive work-conference schedule of the third week. Plans are being made for a climactic tkree-day program to which English teachers throughout the Stale will be invited. At that time rooms for overnight stay will be available in one of the campus dormitories reserved for such gatherings, Dr. Hartsell said.
Sales and Repairs
PHILCO
RADIOS
Ogburn Furniture Co.
312-314 W. Franklin PHONE 5841
Language Faculty Honors H. H. Staab
Prof. Herman Henry Stabb, associate professor in the Romance Languages Department of the University since 1918, was honored at a banquet by members of his department at the Carolina Inn recently on the eve of his retirement.
Thirty-nine members of the Department were present to offer their good wishes both to Professor and Mrs. Stabb, who was a special guest.
Dr. W. M. Dey. head of the Department, presided and made the presentation of an engi-aved silver tray, a iriir from his colleagues, to Prul't-'S ¦: ap,<i Mrs. Stabb.
Other guests included ChanceiioL-Robert B. House and Lieut. David E. Frierson of the L". S. Xavy, a lormer graduate student in languages here, now on terminal leave, who will return to his teaching duties at the University of the South in Sewanee.
Professor Stabb, a native of Heil-bronn. Germany, received his B.A. and 3C.A. dearees at the University of the South. He taught there from 1910 to 1912 when he went to Converse College where he taught until he came to the L*niversity here. Before going t(, Sewanee he taught Spanish in the St. Petersburg, Fla., High School for two years.
All students interested in forming a summer school band should meet at Hill Hall at 4:30 o’clock on Monday, June 17, it was announced today by Director Earl Slocum.
University
Service
station
Oftis
Pendergraft
Prop.
Taking advantage of the lifting of wartime restrictions, alumni returned to the University Commencement this year in large numbers. The graduates numbered approximately 650. Pictured above are the University Library, often referred to as the “heart” of their 152-year-old institution, which houses approximately half a million volumes, and most of the principals in the three-day finals program.
Top row, left to right: Governor R.
Gregg Cherry, who awarded the degrees at the final exercises Monday night in Kenan Stadium at o’clock; President Frank P. Graham, who delivered the farewell message to the graduates; Chancellor Robert B. House, who was principal speaker at a luncheon for the seniors and their parents and guests Saturday; Dr. Stanley Romaine Hooper, Drew University, Madison, N. J,, who delivered the baccalaureate sermon; and Editor Jose-
phus Daniels, former Navy Secretary and Ambassador, who spoke for thft Board of Trustees at the final exercises^ Bottom row:	William	T.	Joyner
Raleigh, president of the General Alun\ni Association^ who presided over the Alumni luncheon Monday in noir Hall; J. Maryon Saunders, Secre*-tray of the Alumni Association, in charge of the class reunions and tfj^er alumni activities; Dr. J. C. LJpns, Chief Faculty Marshal; Earl Slocum,
o
¦
Germany Is
Our Problem
Humanity
\ oftheUnitedVCgioMS |
^ FeUX Mom^ ^ ^
%
Single Copie 25c
Searching, unprejudiced discussions of the problems and issues which will determine the future of our civilization. Every
Student aware of responsibilities facing our generation will fin'd food for thought in these stimulating publications.
PAMPHLETS IN PREPARATjION
JUNE—.if Search for Unity ^ The Basis of World Corinmunity
By JCHIN U. NBF	j
JULY—Preparing the Way for Peace
By DOUGLAS STBKRB
ORDER FROM	I
Human Events, Inc, 608 South Dearborn St., Chlcagd 5, Illinois
So you ha^en 'c seen Aunt fifary Ifelt month of Sundays? Why make yourself so scarce—why not call on her, say, this coming week? It’s so easy to do when you travel by Trailways bost .
One of the many schedules of Trailways is sure to suit you to a “T’. And because you travel in relaxing comfort, you'll feel fresh as a daisy when you reach your destination.	^
Thinking about your pockecbook? Remember—Tra*'' ways is still the most economical way to goL
Planning a trip somewhen for busimss, pleasure or vaca^ ticnl Go via . . .
CAMUNA TWUWAYS
