PAGE TWO
TBE D AILT TAR HEEL
SATURDAY, JUNE 15, 194S
To The New Students—
The vast turnover in the number of new students that comes with every summer session at the University of North Carolina is even greater than usual this summer with many new faces appearing on the local campus.
Along with the many new faces are those of former Carolina students, just now returning to the campus they left to enter the armed forces of the United States. To those former Tar Heels of pre-war Carolina we say, “Welcome back!” Men of their calibre have a rightful place at this rapidly-expanding University and can contribute greatly to its growth.
To those students who are soaking up the local atmosphere for the first time we also extend a hearty welcome. It is to these newcomers that this editorial is primarily addressed. We realize that you are strangers in the little world that is Carolina and, bearing that fact in mind, offer herein a few suggestions that so many of your predecessors have found profitable.
You will find that Carolina offers many opportunities to participate in extra-curricular activities. Something is usually happening somewhere on the campus to appeal to every student and active participation in these events is one of the surest ways to make your life at Carolina, whether it be four months or four years, successful.
Tradition, spirit, honesty, friendliness, and efficient student government are all vital factors in the makeup of the University and you will find quickly that all of these factors are easily apparent and acceptable on the Hill.
The University of North Carolina is noted for its liberality. This you will also find to be true, but moral self-responsibility has consistently made this liberality a recognized privilege that must not be overworked. Occasions have arisen in the past to challenge the worthiness of such liverality, but the same selfresponsibility among the majority of the students has proved that it does work well.
IT WAS GOOD FOR CHAPEL HILL
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has a new student constitution.
This constitution, according to an editorial appearing in the May 3 issue of “The Daily Tar Heel,” gives the students more freedom and more control of their own affairs. It guarantees every student a fair trial before the student courts and the right to face his accuser; the student body shall have the powers of referendum, initiative, and recall, enabling them to change acts they do not like, initiate new acts, and rid themselves of incompetent officers; every agency of student government will be consistently coordinated under written law so there will be no overlapping of authority; adherence to the Honor Code and Campus Code will be required, and student courts will be set up to insure enforcement.
In answer to the objections advanced by the opposition, and in particular to the one stating that the dean of women was reputed to be opposed to the constitution, the “Tar Heel” went on to say that “the student constitution is none of the business of the deans or administration, and that regardless of what some progressive faculty members might say to the contrary, the administration has always been reactionary in granting additional student control of student affairs. We must fight for the power which we have, and we can have just as much as we can forcefully acquire.”
It was also argued that the proposed constitution would injure the Honor System. The editorial, in reply to this argument, continued: “In trials before the highest student court, the accused will have the right to face the accuser ... It is better that ten guilty students go free than that one innocent stu-den be expelled from school. In the past, we have foolishly assumed that justice can be done by student politicians locked in executive session behind closed doors.”
It was not argued by the proponents of the constitution on the Chapel Hill campus that it would solve the many problems of student government; however, it was argued that it guaranteed a framework upon which the student body will have the optimum opportunity to base its decision and legislation. All good constitutions can be amended!
It should be the aim of all college campuses, if they propose to be ever progressive and liberal, to secure a student government which will truly provide for student freedom and student control of their own affairs. The student body at Chapel Hill should be commended for its recent action. Other universities and colleges less fortunate should take note of Carolina’s victory.—^The Florida Flambeau.
Smooth Sailing
Crossword Puzzle
ANSWEm TO ntEvioiJS rvzzLM
ACKOS8
1—Corrupt 4—Smootb and sootbing •—Part of chalf 22—Avail oneseU 19—Wbat giant Is
14—Karrow inlet
15—Sometlilnc left ever
17—Put on makeup 1>—Soft Ufe 30—Cbeeae 21—£eout badga 33—Jotted out 3S—Seed eover 27—fiaelike cavltT SS—Egyptian god 3»—Word of disgust
30—Ballads
31—Fly egg
S3—Steamship (abbr.)
33—Wedding rings
34—Borden
as—They bring news 37—Was sick S&—Macaws
39—What Europe needs
40—Diligent student 42—City on the Loire
45—Ovn (Scot.)
46—^Its capital is Delhi
4&—Prefix: bad
49—Youth
50—Nickname for Theodore
il—Peek
G	o	A	L		0	a]					S	A
S	1	C	E		o					IRj	1	L
A	L	E	S								N	A
B	Y	S	SLJ			¦		£		&	o	N
			OS		1	¦		A				
jc					m	n		T		B	A	yi
	1	L	s	1				¦			E	
	G	E	1	P				i		E	S	il
			c	O				o				
	0	L	A	R				X		E	S	T
A	V		R							o		R
N	E	A	T					(1		E	L	E
EiRlNiE										N	E	E
A new type motorboat seat which smooths out the ups and downs of choppy water is shown above as pictured in the June issue of Science Illustrated magazine. The seat utilizes a coil spring plus a hydraulic shock absorber to cushion the ride, while a stabilizer eliminates sidesway.
Odds and Ends
Lines, Explosions, Dormitory Mix- Ups Mark School Opening
It does seem that the Book Ex cou:'i f-n<i •> more efficient way to distribute books. Especially long is the veteran"' line that sometimes snakes around
South Building or Gerrard Hall, depent
first few days of each session why ca
students to speed up the process? E
Cl)E 3iaft|> ®ar
The official newspaper of the Publications Board of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where it is published daily, except Mondays, examination and vacation periods; during the official summer terms, it is published semi-weekly on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Entered as second-class matter at the post office at Chapel Hill, N. C., under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription price: $5.00 per college year.
COMPLETE LEASED WIRE SERVICE OF UNITED PRESS
BILL WOESTENDIEK	Editor
ROLAND GIDUZ..........................  Managing	Editor
FRED FLAGLER .............................Sports	Editor
BILL SELIG............'...............Business	Manager
CLIFFORD HEMINGWAY	Circulation	Manager
Minnesota Opens Food-Saving Drive For Ill-Fed N ations
Minneapolis (CNS)—A student-initiated Food for Freedom tag-selling campaign is underway at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, with a
goal of $25,000 set—most of the funds to be given to Cooperative for American Remittances to Europe, according to present plans.
Supplementing the student drive at the University of Minnesota, with its record enrollment of 18,000 students, is a faculty campaign, which had hardly begun before a $500 initial contribution was received from five professors.
The City of Minneapolis also is preparing to launch a money-raising appeal to help starving peoples abroad,
Mayor Hubert H. Humphrey told university students May 8 at a campus-
wide Food for Freedom rally.
Sensing the urgency of relieving starvation abroad immediately, a group of students enlisted the support of the Minnesota Daily, campus newspaper, for the drive and had 15,-000 “F'ood for Freedom” lapel tags printed. The campaign opened May 3, with first-day contributions of $1,10G, reported Robert Kerner, steering committee member.
Spurred by posters and a campus concert by the University of Minnesota’s marching band, several hundred students attended a noon-hour Food for Freedom rally in Northrop Memorial Auditorium.
Headed by a steering committee of four students, every campus group is taking part in the drive. With administration approval, an announcement on behalf of the Food for Freedom drive was to be read in all university classes. Above-cost proceeds of two campus-wide dances were eai'-marked for feeding people abroad.
Why CARE was chosen to receive most of the campus donations is explained in an instruction sheet given to student solicitors: “UNRRA provides governments with food for basic rations. In our campaign we are helping to supplement these rations. The Red Cross does only ‘limited emergency’ work. CARE gives food directly to the people on a ncm-partisan basis.”
That other colleges and universities throughout the United States stage similar food-relief fund drives is the hope of the student committee at the University of Minnesota. The idea for a Food for Freedom drive reportedly started with a group of con-
^n where the shade is. For the Book Ex put on a few more bigger room with several en-s would help. . . . you’re wondering what those III explosions are that rocked the dmpus yesterday put your mind at ease. Space is being cleared for ^he itousing project, which by the way is progressing rapidly and s;hould be ready for occupancy in September, and workers blowing up some tree stumps.
Incidentally, the contractors are paying time and a half for Saturday vork on the housing project. Ninety c>ints an hour is not bad with the price oi' eggs going up. Any students interested in part time work should contact Mr. Ed Lanier in South Building. Right now he’s the busiest man on the campus, though, and if you don’t find him in his office try Memorial Hall.
A few men students learned the easy way about women at Carolina. One of the dorms originally assigned to men was at the last moment changed to accommodate married couples. In the mixup a few single men were assigned rooms in the dorms. You can imagine their surprise and delight when they heard feminine voices coming from the rooms. Unfortunately, things are straight now. Who said this was a liberal institution?
Jerry Davidoff, efficient, aggressive leader of the CPU has just returned from the nation’s capitol where he contacted important political big-wigs in an effort to entice them southward for an appearance at Carolina. Some of the republican leaders want to make a swing through Dixie before election time so we may see Senators Leverett Saltonstall (Mass.) and Robert Taft (Ohio) on the campus late this summer or during the fall. Carol Reece, chairman of the Republican National Committee also may get down. Others contacted on the trip were: Senator Wayne Morse (Ore.), William Green of the AFL, Max Gardner of the Treasury Dept., and representatives of the Town Meeting of the Air. None of these men have signed on the dotted line yet, but it looks as if the CPU plans to lead campus organizations in presenting headline speakers to the campus. Best of luck, CPU.
1	1	3		H	5	b	7	8		9	10	II
12				A								
IS			>b					n	IS			
		Id					20					
il	72					23					24	
2b					77					%	28	
¦29				iO						51		
yz												
35		36						37				
							39					
‘^0	HI										Wi	4M
MS				Kb	41				n	M8		
M9				60						51		
Distr. br Vnltcd Featnn Ersdlcatc, lac.
DOWN
I—^Dentist’s drlU a—Peer Gynt’a
mother
3—^Black mark
4—Sudden axidosioB
5—Place to stroll
6—Plan
7—^No good (abbr.)
8—^Press down Sprite in "The Tempest"
10—Border
II—It's tised in
geography 16—It cost a kingdom 1»—Girl’s name 30—Floating parts of glaciers Jl—Bog
22—Appearing gnawed
23—Societies
24—Disintegrate
25—Past time 27—^Ties
30—Enemy of Crusaders
31—Christmas trees
33—^Horse’s home
34—Body element
36—Stormy
37—Make quiet
39—Parched
40—Gossip
41—City in S. America
42—Strange
43—Short sleep
44—Tricky
47—Compass point
7a editor
scientious objectors who have been stationed on the campus as guinea pigs while being systematically starved for a scientific study of the effects of prolonged malnutrition on such victims as those suffering today in Europe. You cannot teach a starving man democracy, the study showed.
Although the drive was slated to last for only one week, the committee is making plans for a continuation of its Food for Freedom campaign and for more cooperation with CARE— so long as human beings are starving.
Carolina Rocks to Beat Of Old-Timers at Reunion
By Roy C. Moose
Regardless of the hold we young’uns think we have on Carolina, every year at commencement time we are dislodged from our positions by the “old timers” who take over and show us how the Alma Mater was in the old days. Each year the old fellows come from far and wide (for none of them would dare miss it) for the reunions that place Carolina among the top meeting places. Last Monday was no exception as hundreds of former freshmen met to rediscover the byways of Carolina.
 -------------------------------- •	Highlight	of	the	occasion	was the
gathering of the Old Students Club, fondly called the “meetinst” of Alumni organizations. Assembling annually, it adds much color to the university when the men of the classes in the ’70s and ’80s again roam the campus. To qualify for this grand old organization, a class must be an alumnus for fifty years. Topping this year’s festivities was the “initiation” of the class of 1896 as “freshmen” in to the club.
Among the familiar faces present last Monday were George McCorkle, class of ’78; Ernest Haywood, class of ’80; Dr. James Y. Joyner, class of ’81; and Josephus Daniels, class of ’85. When these retrospective thinkers assembled the buildings on the campus reacted as if an earthquake had hit the place. No one knows exactly how the conversations went, but they undoubtedly discussed every subject except what the Governor of North Carolina said to the Governor of South Carolina.
Among the other classes reuniting that kept the place on its proverbial ear were the classes of ’07, ’08, ’09, ’10, ’21, ’27, ’28, ’29. When they pulled out Tuesday, the campus again became a haven for studious young men and women in search of knowledge.
The Old Students Club has made
us realize that w^e really don’t advance too high, for remember that fifty years from now we too will be seeking “initiation” into that organization as “freshmen.”
Waste of Manpower
Dear Editor: Now that the politicians of the campus have got off the letter column perhaps I can get in a word edgewise.
I’m browned off plenty.
Why, when men and machines are needed for the construction of the veterans village over behind the infirmary, does the University waste men and machines making sidewalks, bricking in the space in front of the library, and building a stone wall from Carr Dormitory along Country Club Road up to the Varsity Club?
Maybe the houses aren’t here yet, but certainly there is plenty of work to be done out on Pittsboro Road preparatory to erecting the houses. Roads, sidewalks, electricity, plumbing, etc.
What does the University want, pretty sidew^alks and stone walls—or students?
Frank L. Hoskins, Jr.
105 Ridge Lane
Exchanges
She: “I’m hungry.”
He: “What?”
She: “I said I was hungry.”
He: “Sure I’ll take you home. This car makes so much noise that I thought you said you were hungry.” —Technique.
=(=	*	%
DID YOU KNOW: That a neckerchief is not the president of a sorority ?
—Daily Kansan.
•	?	*
“We’re going	to	give the bride a
shower.”
“Count me in. I’ll bring the soap.” —Technique.
*	*	*
What is so rare as a day in June? “Has anybody seen Caledonia?”
Ode to an Interlect I cannot fall asleep tonight.
Oh, interlect hear my plea:
On finals you should know your work But don’t get higher than a C.
*	*	*
I know you know each name and date, But humanity you will serve If you’ll forget the facts a bit And please don’t set the curve.
—Daily Orange. *	*	^
I took a	letter	over	to	my	grandmother;	she couldn’t	find	her	glasses
so we had to drink out of the bottle. * *
Grandma come down off the rafters, you’re too old to be on the beam.
—Kansan.
^wamam, mo.. i»er
Reprinted from tht July imt of Btqolrt
