PAGE TWO
THE DAILY TAS HEEL
TUESDAY, JUNE 25, 1946
RAiio/UcJJUf SftedkiH^
Community Action...
It is one of our ideas that every veteran should belong to an or£^anization whose aim is to make this country better for civilians. An organization that gives him an opportunity to make this the kind of country he fought for. While many ex-service men will return to civilian pursuits with never a thought of community action, many veterans are joining groups which are doing more than sounding off. It is a healthy sign to see that veterans of this war are forming new groups. They believe that a new approach to veteran affairs, that a new type of veterans organization is necessary. They are forming organizations which seem to emphasize becoming civilians first and veterans second.
It should not take much to convince veterans that their voices can and will be heard. If a ruckus can be raised about such things as the caste system, terminal leave pay, and uniforms while men are in the armed forces, then surely the same ruckus can be raised when it comes to questions of OPA, atomic energy, foreign policy, food to Europe, and housing.
Earlier in the year the UVA raised such a ruckus about the high rents being charged in Chapel Hill. Members of the UVA petitioned Washington to make an investigation of the situation. The OPA requested their representative in this area to conduct a hearing on the matter, and representatives of the University administration, local real estate interests, and members of the UVA presented their views. After the pros and cons were heard it was decided to have the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U. S. Department of Labor conduct an investigation to determine whether rent control was desirable.
Members of the UVA should note with a feeling of satisfaction the news article that appeared in last week’s editions of state papers in which it is announced that Chapel Hill will have rent control beginning July 1. The UVA is strictly a campus organization. They have on occasion joined with other veterans orgi^nizations in concerted action on various issues. But their main effort is to make things easier for veterans on this campus. Since the investigation showed that rent control is desirable, it is the UVA who deserves the credit.
We urge all veterans to consider the various organizations that meet on the campus with the thought of membership. We believe that these organizations will afford each veteran a chance to voice his opinion on community problems.
NURSERY SCHOOL
We would like to add our note of congratulations to the group of married veterans who have organized and put into action the nursery school that oi)ened this week.
The school opened this week and more than thirty children are attending. A competent staff of supervisors is conducting the scho<^. Play space and proper sux>ervision of children whose parents are attending school has long been needed in Chapel Hill.
Veterans are encountering many problems as they return to school. It is good to see them go into action and solve them.
Take It or Leave It
Long List of UVA Prexies Beginning to Show Results
By Eddie “Blaclde” Black After a long succession of leaders (if you want to call them that, I personally prefer not) the Veteran's club has come into its own under the capable and industrious leadership of Jim Chestnut of Clinton, N. C.
When I first returned to the campus, the University Veteran’s Association was undergrotng a radical change. Old officers had been kicked out; new ones had been put in. They, according to those who were supposed to be in on the know, were the new blood which was going to revitalize, to rebuild, and to reorganize the true campus veteran’s®' '	¦	—	-	-
organization.
They were, l>ewey Dorsett, President; and Blount Stewart, Vice President. Nothing much happened for a long time. . . . Then a young fellow named Don English came along and tried to do what those in charge seemed to be failing to do. He accomplished a great deal. The Veteran's social program, climaxed in Veteran’s Week, was a huge success.
Due to trouble at Uwme, Don left school during the Spring quarter. Following that Dewey Dorsett resigned as president of the association because of “too much school work to do.”
Blount Stewart then succeeded to the post of President. All that he managed to accomplish, excepting the night he had Royall here, was to attempt to disband the U.V.A.
However, many did not want that to occur, for they felt that the U.V.A. could do something for the campus. That group took over, elected Jim Chestnut to be their leader and they have worked diligently to make some-
To the Editor:
HPB Noted with Interest
Saturday, June 22, 1946
To the EViitor:
I noted with interest the newly released pi^visions of the House Privileges Board that appeared in the DTH of June 22nd. The purpose of the HPB is commendable and the results it has achieved are a credit to the university and the student body.
It is unfortunate that this organization ixas made the mistake of assuming that by officially banishing liquor from sight on the university or fraternity premises it will necessarily achieve ®	^
thing out of the hash that had been left them.
It has taken them over a month to figure out how the club stood financially; it has taken them over a month to find who was and who wasn’t a member . . . and they as yet have not found out how many people were members during Blount Stewart’s reign.
In a brief summary this Is what has happened in the UVA since its beginning. Bill Smith and others organized it; were thrown out of office at the end of Fall quarter. Winter quarter, it was Dewey's turn to attempt to do something. Nothing much happened, and Blount took over during the Spring Quarter . . . another mess.
As an added item of interest . . . each of the Presidents of UVA ran for President of the student body in the last elections.
Now the UVA's records are straight; now the UVA has able leadership; now the the UVA has the Veteran’s problems on its mind and not Politics; now the UVA has over 600 paid members.
Pumous
Jack Dube and Bud Imbrey
correct conduct on the part of (as seems to be HPB’s foremost worry) the coeds. It has further erred by making the violation of rule four (which states: There shall be no consumption of alcoholic beverages in the presence of, or by, coeds in the house or on the premises of any organization.) an honor council offense.
I am inclined to believe that a good number of the coeds on this campus occasionally enjoy a sip, a glass, or even a bottle of beer. Probably some of them would accept a martini (properly mixed) from time to time. I have yet to be convinced that any have the desire to rush out and gfet drunk. What then are the results of this prohibition?
1. It prohibits the learning and enjoyment of “social drinking." If casual refreshments are to be served, lemonade rather than a bottle opener must be offered.
2. Drinking on the sly is encouraged. Liquor, by its prohibition, assumes a major rather than a minor attraction. Parties are formed for the sole purpose of consuming alcoholic beverages. Drinking on university and fraternity premises is reduced to a sordid sneaking of forbidden fruit, and instead of sipping one mild, mixed drink, the campus socialite must gulp quickly any of several horrible concoctions popular among the flask and grape juice lads.
3. Gentlemen on fraternity premises are forced either to be rude to their dates, abstain from drinking, cr violate the honor code.
4. Violations of the honor code re-
Diatripe: What with the great and intense heat which has returned to Cheppil Collitch, we feel it only proper to give a word or two of warning and instruction on the use and avoidance of the summer tan. Normally any instruction would be useless. In the old days, the Alpha Beta Chi Chapter houses in Dui'ham could supply us with the latter ingredient of the Mint Julep (that’s what we like about the South) and we could at least give advice on what to do after five o'clock. (We're much too pukka ever to debauch ourselves prematurely.) Ever since the meat shortage, our friend Harry (name of Ben) permits us space in his refrigerator and Max lets us sit on his ice cream chest, but with the thousands of students in school, there is not room for everyone. However, if you stay away from the track and as much as possible from classes where you are forced to watch people exercise and work, half the battle is won. We note too, with a bit of sorrow, that moleskin and chinchilla bathing suits have given way to plain
cloth styles. With heavy wraps stored away in closets, only one problem evidences itself. Just how do the moths manage to keep cool and free from perspiration?
Eyetems: Wanda Wagely shouldn’t be overlooked despite her diminutive figger. Her main ambition in life is to drive (cars). Her explanation of an angel is a pedestrian who didn't see her coming. . . . “Josie” Getson tells us she is a pretty hard type. The only thing that leaves its impression on her is a diamond. ... It happened down at the tennis courts. Some yokel staggering in during the middle of the match queried, “Whose game?” Demure young Patricia Hacquet (known to some as Caledonia) burbled, “I am.’’ . . .
Impresario Dept. : We have it from Dick Adler that • when he was in Panama, a native ran up to him and saia, “Senor, here is chance for trophy. Lot of jaguar tracks a mile South of here.” “Good,” cried the intrepid producer (junior), “which way is North.”
suit. This is the most important factor of all. If continued it will result in the undermining of the entire honor code s37stem.
5. Visitors to this campus are forced to hide away in unfrequented .(and frequently unattractive) spots in o^der to enjoyed one bottle of beer. This act most visitors can neither understand nor condone. Most of them consider it childish.
6. Drunkenness on the campus, although forbidden, is tolerated to a large extent, while the appearance of a bottle is not. Thus a coed may be seen drunk and the only assumption to be drawn is that she has immaculately conceived her inebriation.
The purpose of this rule is undoubtedly to keep a high level of moral conduct on the university grounds. No one will argue the worth of such a purpose. But surely the results indicate that the measure is misdirected or inadequate.
Consider the following suggestions:
1. Drinking will be permitted during any hours approved for the presence of coeds.
2. Any organization which by its conduct demonstrates its inability to conduct any form of social gathering will have its privileges removed for such time as the HPB deems fit.
By these simple provisions the House Privileges Board would achieve its desired end, the student body would be permitted to function as a group of adults, and the honor code woxild be saved from constant violation.
John S. Clayton
Entertainment Committee Is Test for New Constitution
To The Student Body:
In the Saturday issue of the Daily Tar Heel there appeared an article by Jim Taylor regarding the Legislature approval of President Dewey Dorsett’s reappointment of two old members to next year’s Entertainment Committee. Taylor condemned the Legislature action charging it had broken “sacred” promises to furnish better entertainment in the coming year and had “trampled” the wishes of the students. He was outstanding in his criticism of the reappointment of Allan Pan-^; nill who served as chairman of the
In 1942-1943, according to the United States Office of Education, Federal Security Agency, the American people sx>ent $2,808,098,338 for reading, writing, and arithmetic.
Last year, the American people spent $7,770,000,000 to get moderately high, mildly intoxicated, or dead drunk.
Mr. Robert Pritchard, National Chairman of Alcoholics Anonymous, is reported by the New Jersey White Ribbon News, as saying that there are now more than 600,000 chronic woman alcoholics in the United States and that one of every four confirmed drunks is a woman.
^ ©mlj>
The’ official newspaper of	the	Publications	Board	of	th«	Univonity of North Carolina
Ghapti HiU. wbsre it is published	daily, cxespt Mondays,	cxataination	and vacation periods;
^rini^ tfac official •oznmcr tcmw, it is pubiJshed semi-wtelcly on Tuesdays and Saturdays. XnterM as sMond-eiass matter at the post office at Chapd Hill. N. €.. ander the act of Matca 8, 1879. Subscription price: 96.00 per colkce yiear.
COMPLETE LEASED WIRE SERVICE OF UNITED PRESS
¦I ¦¦ i__________________________——
BH4L WOESTENDIEK  ........................................   ^....Editor
BCHjAND GIDUZ  ......................................   Managing	Editor
FHED FLAGLER............. ............................    Sports	Editor
BILL SELIG ......................................     Business	Manager
CLIFFORD HEMINGWAY    ......................       Circulation	Manager
Asbociati Editob: Ray Conner.
Eoitmuax. B«akd: Gene Aenchbaclier.
News Staff: Sally Woodhull, Thomas Abernethy, Bill Jabine, Eleanor Craig, Jane Hutson, Burke Shipley, Tomie Gates, Bob Morrison, Arnold Schulman, Roy Moose, A1 Lowenstein, Sam Whitehall, Helen Highwater. COFT Editok: Hill Wolfe NlGHt SptWTS Editob: Jim Pharr.
SUBSOUraoN Managk: Brantley McCoy.
Businkss Staff: Strowd Ward, Barbara Thorson, Marjorie Riggs. AvmnsiNa Staff: Adelaide McLarty, Jan« Peete, Nancy Waugk.
^ <9at/s and STc
s ana (yancies
By CVNTHIA
Committee since November of last year and charged the appointment an “approval of the inactivity of the committee of the past.”
It is apparent that either the students made grave errors in selecting members to the Legislature in May or there were good reasons for the decisive 28-10 vote and Taylor’s statement amounts to a jumbled pile of words without reason.
This first year under the new Constitution is to be a period of extreme trial for Student Government at North Carolina. Confidence in and sappart of your elected Student Government representatives is deserved and necessary. This Is no time for false accusations brought on by inabilitjr to accept majority rule and personal animosity in Student Government.
You are entitled to the facts. The Entertainment Committee was approved by the Legislature because:
1. It ^d the earnest recommenda-
tion of President Dewey Dorsett as being those students most qualified for the job. Our President will have to work with this group and be responsible for their actions.
2. It was requested that the Com-mittee be retained by Dr. Harland, faculty advisor to the Committee, so as to maintain continuity of the Com- , mittee at a time when contracts were being made for next year’s entertainment. All contracts had been made for this past year’s entertainment when pannill assumed chairmanship in November.
3. The Legislature did not believe that those members under considem-tion could be held responsible for last year’s poor entertainment in that they were not serving on the Committee at the time seleetions were made and the poor quality ~v^as to a great esctent due to a lack of funds caused by failure of the Government to pay feea of Veterans registered under the GI BilL
Bnx Miu^
Crossword Puzzle
1—Oams played sttek
4—FMdt ta fMfe
a-DMtll ¦OWSS la—HummtngtatrJ
as—Fiotttlow M»-Barlns aklppn XT-BUl of fM« IS-Albert IS—Put on tiotlM SI—Away from wtatL a—Tb» wiwi* of SS—aouthan Mato (abbr.)
3t»—ProiMiai St—Part of Um y«M S»-Be«*>ds lor MVflM
•S-Wettoe tt irtmtni 91—
gjgg—
5—VUttaU ttMv.)
M-OVD (Soot)
H—BaroM O Toondor of
M-P«nodo o( tteo av-OT«m
volghtfof
4B—Thoron (obfeB.1 fafitfw •1—^ adoteooMl n—WlTes
10
riUEVlODS PDZZLB
?ana
laudiij Ejca Ri? S
a (I'y aan
r-]
IS—SQkwem ft-ifan’i aaao ¦e-Heof (dlaL»
S/tim
To add a whimsical touoh to this summary baachwear, designer Frances Sidor hanjl-paints a Mexican ^pura-fUr-^otorlal intei^est on the wliito swinv«l(irt worn by HAary Aaatf jaT^Mltual’a **Explering The Unknown.” JThe floota coliwi <>• atate jgwiei jMt in tho bailor bnu
1	1	i		4	s					k	10	II
				it				H				
			lb		li					%		
n				to		li			%	ii		
ii					as							
ri		u		39								
ii			h									
						17						
9f	MO								Mt			
				mS			%	mA				
¦is			Hf				so					
n		S3							V			
					57					St		
BOWM
t-Xa tlM ariddto t PoawMootsd
•—Doad mrvofora
V-MfdMOi
S—A aonbir 9 -BortMn (watj; “ -Tbo Book
L MM VMm	ta.
14—AdliMVBt of
15—*Ua fo* hoeo BD—Sargl^ tlirwiS •S-FInt ptlMl
of Jwm »—Pnflx: Mi M—Rldoout as—Freoch ooloay SO—Zjarge iiw S2—Took seat a—Juaip M—Frencb rwert as—Wreoeb n—H« (STO up Mooo M—Waab
40—Steamablp
41—Taxable ram 4S—Clear proitt 4S—Poor actor 4T—Kind of
advertising dca 40—^Town In Belgtm ID—Prefix: new U—Chinese weifU B4—Staanum (sya^
