editorial
0 Something Must Be D<me
• Take It or Leave It
• Rejuvenated UYA
Wit
NEWS
• No Homes
• Freack Hoaie laTites
• Newman to Play
-TBS ONLY COLLBGE DAILY IN THB SOUTHSA3T-
volume i>v
United Press
CHAPEL HTLT^ N. TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 1946
Editw: F*314S — Bnmess: 8641
NUMBER 2
gCHW Will Meet Xomorrow Night In Baby Lounge
Carrying on its regular year-round activities in the realm of political action, the campus chapter of the South-gin Conference For Human Welfare ^ill hold its first summer meeting to-niorrow, Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Baby Lounge of Graham Memorial, according to Bob Gurney, chapter
president.
• The sixty-five members of our local chapter can well be proud of the trenundous increase in both registration and voting in the recent local and Conirrossional elections.” Gurney said.
Ho went on to say, “Although we refrained from backing any specific candidate or party, we participated in a cj,iipa;gn to get out a big vote, working on the premise that a large vote is a progressive vote."
Over 75,000 pieces of non-partisan votiniT literature were distributed by the <tudent-members of the Campus S.C.H. W. Chapter. Buses were chartered every Saturday during registration to carry students to Greensboro, High point, Durham, and other important voting sections of the state. Students spent the entire day covering business and residential sections of the
tOWTlS.
The S.C.H. W. is a liberal political action membership group and invites all persons who can and will subscribe to its tenets to join. Tomorrow’s meeting is open to all interested per-
Housing Work Rules Listed
20 Hours’ Work Weekly Minimum
In an effort to clear up matters concerning student work on the housing project certain regulations and conditions affecting workers have been announced.
Each student must have a social security number before going to work ¦and must work at least 20 hours a week. Working hours are from 7 a. m. to noon and from 1:30 p. m. to 5:30 p. m. On baturdays a student may work only half a day. After working 16 houis a week a student is paid time and a half for Saturday work. At present, only laborers and finished carpenters are needed; they are paid 60c and $1.12 per hour respectively.
Work requiring painters, plumbers, and electricians is under sub-contract and a union card will be required.
First Meeting of A\C Scheduled for Tonight
The Chapel Hill Chapter of the American Veterans Committee will hole its first meeting of the summer session tonight at 7:30 o’clock at the Presbyterian church. Any World War
II	v^eterans interested in joining the organization are invited to attend £his m<eting.
Winston Barefoot, chairman, will peside. Reports on activities of the virious committees scheduled for the t^mmer will be made by James Poin-,«exter, Frank Kottke, Bob Kinsman, iValter Spearman and David Malone, special reportaT will be made on the status of the various OPA bills now pending in Congress and on the food conservation drive and the day nursery school for children of veterans in
Prominent Editor Elected President Of Music Society
Spencer Murphy, well knowa. editorf(;;jj3pgj jjjji
of the Salisbury Post, has just been-------------------------------------
elected president of the North Caroj
lina Symphony Society, tt was ^|||| jjilCCtCCl X10ft€l
nounced yesterday at Symphony head quarters here.
Mr. Murphy succeeds Harry Comer, Executive Secretary of te University of North Carolina YM(^» who resigned recently because ofill health after serving as presidei|tof the Symphony for two years.
Mr. Murphy, a graduate of the University in the class of 1926and an active alumnus, conducted ces.'ful campaign in the Salisbu^area for the Symphony expansion
p|^?ram
conaucted by the Society last ^ar.
Son of the late Walter Pete)
Murphy and Mrs. Murphy, f)encer Murphy has lived in Salisbujr most of his life, and upon gradua^ from th(? University went to wor^n the Salisbury Post as a reported
•A^s a student in the Univi’ity, he wa? a member of Golden FJfce, con-.' idf-red by many to be the highest ranking honorary organiljiion; of •Sifrma Upsilon, literary eternity, and .Sigma Nu, social frat#)ity. He was .-ditor of the Yackety lick, year-I'ook, and was a member Oithe staffs of the Carolina Magazin# and the iJaily Tar Heel.
He founded the Carina Buc-
<;ar . < r, a Carolina humo? magazine, ar;<i was active in the C#>lina Play* mak( rs. In 1923 he wrot the words to ‘ Fraternity Blues” t the Buc-•an' « r, while Kay K^er, North ^ ^rolifia’s famous band ader, wrote ffiusic.
I ri. North Carolina fmphony Or-'' ¦ ’ ra, under the direion of Dr. jiirnin Swalin, has st complete • riost successful ason, having 104 concerts in North Caro conared to nine It will
countu's, as ¦rt.s the previouf ason begin a statewidappeal for an renewal of nwberships I .scheduling conrts for n®*
^ VA Launcts Drive ^’<>r New Meibers
1	University "’terans* Associa ' is holding a mibership drive on ‘‘irics«Jay and Tlrsday, when ^ ‘¦'¦iii: (jii campus nr/ secure mem r ‘ m' in the organition, between ®
' ‘ of 9 a.m.nd 1 P-"™'
m
* '1 ^ A, or at nooand evening J
meal
at a
boothn Lenoir Dining
H.
'•'M) kKHE^AL lht*re will ba band " ilill Hall lursday
('¦ m.
at 4:30
Of Law Fraternity
David M. Hall, Jr., of Sylva, third-year law student at the University was recently elected Magister of Vance Inn, local chapter of the national legal fraternity of Phi Delta Phi, for the coming year. He succeeds James B. Garland of Gastonia. The post is one of the most coveted at the Law School.
Hall was initated last fall into Vance Inn and served as Exchequer. He also served the University Law Association as secretary and treasurer.
Members of Phi Delta Phi are selected jpn the basis of scholastic achievement and personal leadership. The oldest professional fraternity in America, Phi Delta Phi lists among its members Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Theodore Roosevelt, Chief Justices of the United States Supreme Court Harland Fiske Stone, Charles Evans Hughes, and William Howard Taft. Of the North Carolina Supreme Court, five of the seven Justices are nembers.
Friday Marks Opening Of Candlelight Room
Featuring a new terrace with steps leading down from the rear of Graham Memorial, the Candlelight Room will inaugurate its summer program Friday night with a dance open to all students.
Highlight of the evening will be the singing of Carolina songs, led by Her-schell Snuggs. New students will be welcomed at an open-house.
Eddie Black, manager of the Candlelight Room, has announced plans for the summer which include concerts Sunday evenings at 9:00 p.m. Friday Frolics, previously run by Graham Memorial in the upstairs lounge, will be held in the Candlelight Room.
During the week the room will be open for dancing from 2 p.m. through coed hours. Because of a current shortage in soft drinks, none will be served except on weekend nights.
Large Enrollment
With ft few mor® students yet to register, this session of summer school is assured of being «.8t and best in the history of the University. Approximately 3500 students have already enrolled and 2500 of these are veterans.
Miss Alice Flory, Senior from Columbia, South Carolina, was chosen recently to be the Kappa Sigma Pinup Girl for the Summer Terms.
CPU To Meet On Wednesday
Group to Discuss Summer Activity
All members of the Carolina Political Union who are now on the campus are asked to meet in the Grail room on Wednesday afternoon at 5.
TJie purpose of the meeting is to hear a report from chairman Jerry David-ofF on his recent trip to Washington and to discuss the possibilities of the Union being active during the sum* mer session.
Any former members of the Union returned from service are automatically reinstated to member«^hip, and are cordially invited to attend the meeting Wednesday afternoon.
Those not attending are asked to leave thier summer school address with Ben Perlmutter at 111 Lewis dorm, either, in person or by calling 8021.
Faculty Members Of Publications Board Announced
Dr. Lyman Gotten and W. A. Olsen have been appointed faculty members of the Publications Board, according to Chancellor R. B. House. The newly elected student members of the Board petitioned the Chancellor to appoint Gotten and Olsen.
Both faculty and student members of the Board will meet this afternoon at 2 o’clock in the Grail Room in Graham Memorial to begin the preparation of budgets for the 3 student publications next year. DTH Editor Bill
See FACULTY, page U
Bene Hardre To Address French House
Professor Rene Harde of the French Department of Woman’s College, Greensboro, will speak on the Free French movement at a special celebration commemorating the founding of the movement, to be held this evening at 7 p. m. at the French House, operating in the Alpha Delta Pi sorority house. The anniversary of Gen. DeGaulle’s inauguration of the Free French movement, June 18, has been made a national holiday in France, and is celebrated almost on par with July 14, famous Bastille Day, according to Hugo Giduz, director of the house.
Giduz Announced
Mr. Giduz announced that persons interested in speaking French are invited to hear Mr. Hardre, as well as to attend other programs of the house. These will include a program of songs and games on Wednesday night, several French movies on Thursday night, and a talk by Dr. J. C. Lyons, of the French department of the University on Friday. All these programs begin at 7 p. m.
Monday night students and faculty saw film strips showing reproductions of famous French paintings now in the Metropolitan museum, as well as slides of well known French railway posters. Saturday night a picnic was held on the lawn, followed by a program of songs and games.
Summer Courses To Be Held Here By Trade Experts
A number of experts in Chamber of Commerce work from throughout the South, including several from the United States Chamber of Commerce, #>1! conduct first-year and advanced courses and deliver general lectures at the third annual Southeastern Institute to be held at the University here June 23-29, it was announced yesterday.
Approximately 200 commercial organization executives from 11 Southern states are expected to attend the Institute which will be a one-week training <;ourse, comprising classes, lectures, forums, and discussion pertaining to the needs of Chambers of Commerce throughout this section of the country.
One of six similar training schools througihout the nation, the Institute will endeavor to offer study to “fit the changihg economy of the present hour, an appriaisal of new events and trends, and th%^ best methods of solving new Chamber of Commerce problems.” There v(f$ll be 52 class periods during the weefK;, conducted by experts.
Lack of Federal Funds Hinders Housing Plans
Hurried Communication with FPHA Office Fails to Get More Dormitory Space
By Jane Hutson
A hurried communications with the Atlanta office of the Federal Public Housing Authority achieved no results yesterday as administrative officials here tried vainly to get more dormitory space for returning veterans.
^ The plan was to get several temporary structures erected to house single students. They would be wooden houses in barrack style •C^rhich liave been used near overcrowded war plants.
No Reserve Money According to the Atlanta office there is no more reserve federal money left for moving and re-erecting such buildings. Until Congress sees fit to appropriate more funds for this purpose, the project must be abandoned.
Three houses have arrived at the site on Mason Farm Road where 378 apartments are to be built for housing married veterans. All of these are now under construction.
WILLIAM S. NEWMAN
Prof. Newman Plays Tonight
Amusing variations on “Mary Had a Little Lamb,” by Edward Ballantine, will be a feature number of the piano recital to be presented by William S. Newman, assistant professor of music at the University of North Carolina, tonight at 8:30 p.m. in Hill Music Hall.
Other numbers on Mr. Newman's program include “Prelude and Fugue in E Minor,” by Mendelssohn; “Phan-tasie. Opus 17,” by Robert Schumann; “Moment Musical in A-flat Major,” by Franz Schubert; and “Venezia e Napoli—Trantella,” from Seconde Annee de Perlerinage,” by Franz Liszt.
Profesor Newman has appeared in recitals in New York, Cleveland, Chicago, and has appeared at Chapel Hill as recitalist and as piano soloist in the Chapel Hill Choral Club presentation of “The Rio Grande." He is leaving Chapel Hill soon to teach in the graduate school at Teachers’ College, Columbia University, and will return here in the fall.
GRAIL MEETS
There will be a meeting of the Order of the Grail tonight at 7:30 in the Grail Room of Graham Me-moriaL
Money Unimportant to Him
* Biggest Kick Is In Working With People,' Says Ed Lanier, BiMy Student Aid Director
By Arnold Schulman
“No,^’ said Edwin S. Lanier, peering over the glasses which rested on his nose, “there’s nothing interesting about me, but there certainly is about what I’m doing. The way I look at it. I’m touching the stream of human life right now at its most interesting point.”
His official titles are Director of Student Aid Office and Director of Central Records Office. Between the two he manages to be kept busier than the mythical server of ice water in the lower regions, and about as hard to find. However, as he puts it, “There couldn’t be two jobs any more opposite in nature.”
Mind A Mechanism
On the one hand, with the Record Office, his mind becomes a mechanism, a calculator of figures, an instrument to record the mass of innumerable details and^ statistics that comes from keeping a complete record of every student at the University, but then on the other hand, this is balanced by working solely with the individual through the Student Aid Office.
It is the latter of these jobs that furnishes him with the bulk of his enjoyment. “If I was just working for the money,” he continued, “I'm sure that there would be some other
sort of work thiat would be a lot less strenuous and perhaps more profitable, but I’ve n^ver once regretted taking this job, And I’ve been at it more than sixteen years. What I get the biggest kick oii<t of is working with and for people, Especially young people.”
Georgia-Bofn
Mr. Lanier was bom in Savannah, Georgia, an undisclosed \ number of years ago, and remarks ^'I’m distantly related to the poett^ but not enough to be embarrassing I to him.”
EDWIN S. LAN
Then after routine schooling there he wound up at Carolina, graduating with the class of 1925.
For a time after ^aduation he taught at the Thomasville, N. C., high school where he also assisted with the coaching, but before long he found himself back on the campus at Chapel Hill seeking a degree in ;law.
It was then that he began working with the Self-Help Office, and vhen the time came for a decision to either continue with the law or with the self-help work, he decided to remain with the school.
Edwin, Jr.
He had meanwhile married Nancy Herndon, who worked in the office of President Graham, and now they have two chilHren, a girl aged five, and Edwin, Jr., who is three months old, and the cause for almost as much sleeplessness as his daytime job.
“But there is just one thing,” he cautioned. “There are so many others doing just as much if not more than I am, but they just don’t get as much notice because I’m the one that the fellows have to see. What I want to get across is that when somebody gets a loan through my office, it’s not my doing. I just happen to be in a position that makes me look instrumental.”
Reception Set For Wednesday By Di Senate
Officers to Meet Preceding Fete
A reception for all new students interested in forensics and formal debate will be given Wednesday night at 9 o’clock by the Dialectic Senate, announced Bob Morrison, presidentelect of the Senate. The reception will be held in the Di chamber on the third floor of New West Building.
To Jay plans for an active summer program, the officers of the Senate will meet at 8 o’clock preceding the reception. Going into regular session Wednesday night, the new officers for the summer terms will be installed by David Pittman, retiring president. Morrison will deliver an inaugrural address and bring the gavel down on the beginning of the Di’s 152nd year of activity on the campus.
Other Officers
Other cfficers to be installed are Eddie Black, president pro tempore; David Pittman, critic; Dan McFarland, sergeant-at-arms; Arthur Bud-long, clerk; and Clifford Horton, treasurer.
Tke members of the Assembly of the Philanthropic Literary Society, which will be inactive during the summer, have been invited to participate in the activiti^ of the Senate. All summer school students may attend sessions of the Di, and there may be several initiations of new members this summer.
PineRoomOpening Eases Food Lines
L. H. Gooch announced that the Pine Room located at the South entrance of Lenoir Hall has opened and is ready to serve the students.
The Pine Room features a la carte specials, sandwiches, and coffee, milk and tea. The table service coffee shop will be in operation from 12 to 2 o’clock daily and from 5:30 to 10:30 at night.
Mr. Gooch said that he had plans for expanding the service to include soft drinks, milk shakes and other snack bar merchandise.
The Pine Room service is being revived this term for the first time since the Pre-Flight unit occupied the entire dining hall. Last term the Navy unit here used the room for chow hall when Swain hall was vacated.
Marie Blaylock Named Summer TT’ Secretary
The YMCA has announced that Miss Marie Blaylock would serve as secretary during the summer absence of Miss Peggy Jurgensen, who will return in September. Miss Blaylock, a resident of Chapel Hill, graduated with a B.S. in commerce from the Um<> versity of North Carolina in the class of 1946.
